The Project Gutenberg eBook of Nick Carter Stories No 156, September
4, 1915: Blood Will Tell, by Nick Carter

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Nick Carter Stories No 156, September 4, 1915: Blood Will Tell
       or Nick Carter's Play in Politics

Author: Nick Carter

Editor: Chickering Carter

Release Date: June 16, 2022 [eBook #68328]

Language: English

Produced by: David Edwards, Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Northern
             Illinois University Digital Library)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NICK CARTER STORIES NO 156,
SEPTEMBER 4, 1915: BLOOD WILL TELL ***





                              NICK CARTER
                                STORIES

  _Issued Weekly. Entered as Second-class Matter at the New York Post
 Office, by_ STREET & SMITH, _79-89 Seventh Ave., New York. Copyright,
 1915, by_ STREET & SMITH. _O. G. Smith and G. C. Smith, Proprietors._


            Terms to NICK CARTER STORIES Mail Subscribers.

                           (_Postage Free_.)

              =Single Copies or Back Numbers, 5c. Each=.

                        3 months            65c.
                        4 months            85c.
                        6 months           $1.25
                        One year           $2.50
                        2 copies one year   4.00
                        1 copy two years    4.00

=How to Send Money=--By post-office or express money order, registered
  letter, bank check or draft, at our risk. At your own risk if sent
       by currency, coin, or postage stamps in ordinary letter.

   =Receipts=--Receipt of your remittance is acknowledged by proper
   change of number on your label. If not correct you have not been
          properly credited, and should let us know at once.

 =No. 156.=      NEW YORK, September 4, 1915.      =Price Five Cents.=




                           BLOOD WILL TELL;

                  Or, NICK CARTER’S PLAY IN POLITICS.

                     Edited by CHICKERING CARTER.




CHAPTER I.

THE WOMAN FOUND DEAD.


The telephone communication was from Arthur Gordon, the prominent New
York banker and broker, then a candidate for election to Congress on the
Fusion reform ticket--a communication so sensational in character and so
imbued with alarm and anxiety on the part of the speaker, that it evoked
only the following terse, decided response from Nick Carter, to whom the
frantic appeal had been made:

“I will go right up there, Mr. Gordon. I will be there in ten minutes.”

“What’s the trouble?”

The inquiry came from Chick Carter, the celebrated detective’s chief
assistant, when Nick arose from his swivel chair and hurriedly closed
his roll-top desk.

“A murder has been committed, or said to have been,” he replied.

“A murder--where?”

“Columbus Avenue,” Nick said tersely. “Arthur Gordon is under arrest for
the crime. The woman’s body was found by--but we’ll get the details
later. You had better go with me. Luckily Danny is at the door with the
touring car. We will lose no time.”

Both detectives were leaving Nick’s Madison Avenue residence when the
last was said, hurriedly putting on their overcoats while entering his
powerful motor car. In another moment both were seated in the tonneau
and speeding north through the crisp air of the October morning. It then
was nine o’clock.

Nick had hurriedly given Danny, his chauffeur, the Columbus Avenue
address of the house in which the murder was said to have been
committed, and he remarked, a bit grimly to Chick, while they settled
back on the cushioned seat:

“By Jove, it’s strange how Gordon repeatedly gets into trouble.”

“I should say so.”

“He certainly is up against it good and hard. It’s less than a year
since we pulled him out of that scrape in which he was suspected of
having killed his stenographer--that double-dyed rascal, Mortimer
Deland, who fooled him so completely in female attire.”

“Yes, I remember,” Chick nodded. “But what is he now up against? What
did he tell you?”

“I did not wait to learn many of the details,” Nick replied. “He has
just been arrested by a plain-clothes man and a policeman. The latter
was sent to his house by Detective Phelan, who evidently had learned
enough to warrant his arrest.”

“Great guns! is it possible?”

“Gordon yielded submissively, of course, and was allowed to telephone to
me.”

“Was he at his home in the Bronx?”

“No. He has been living with his parents in Riverside Drive during his
present political campaign. His wife and her uncle, Rudolph Strickland,
are with them. It is more convenient for Gordon to be in town while
making his political fight, than at his Bronx residence.”

“By Jove, this comes at a bad time for him, Nick, if there really is any
serious evidence against him,” Chick said gravely.

“A bad time, indeed.”

“We are almost on the eve of election. Gordon has put up a splendid
fight against Madison, his Congressional opponent on the Democratic
ticket. His election, though the possibility was ridiculed at first, now
is conceded in many quarters, and it looks to me like a cinch--unless
this affair turns the tide of public opinion,” Chick added, more
seriously.

“That suggests something,” Nick replied.

“You mean?”

“That this affair may be a frame-up, a dastardly scheme designed to have
just the effect you mentioned. In other words, Chick, to throw Gordon
down at the last moment and so insure Jack Madison’s election.”

“But Madison would not do such a beastly trick as that, nor even connive
at it.”

“Don’t be so sure of it,” Nick said dryly. “Men with political
ambitions, some men, at least, are capable of infernally wicked work.
Madison is very anxious to carry this election, and so is the party
machine. There is much depending on it.”

“That’s very true,” Chick allowed. “But I cannot believe Madison capable
of such knavery, to say nothing of murder. Who is the victim?”

“Matilda Lancey.”

“The deuce you say! Her reputation is infernally bad in circles where
she is well known.”

Both detectives had seen her occasionally and were aware of her shady
reputation. She was a frequenter of the theaters, the best hotels and
the fast restaurants, with a capacity for wine that made her, in one
respect at least, a desirable patron, though in public she never went
beyond certain discreet points.

Tilly Lancey, in fact, as she was familiarly known, enjoyed friendly
relations with a small legion of fast society chaps and men about town,
and was equally distinguished for her striking beauty, her fine figure,
her costly jewels, and beautiful gowns. That she had met her death at
the hands of a man of Arthur Gordon’s type seemed utterly incredible.

“Tilly Lancey, eh?” Chick muttered audibly. “So she has come to the end
of her career. It has been hinted by some of the mud-slinging stump
speakers, Nick, that Madison has been quite as friendly with Miss Lancey
as the law allows, in view of the fact that he has a wife and family.”

“Still another reason, perhaps, why my suggestion has feet to stand on,”
Nick replied. “There is nothing in speculating upon it, however, before
we have learned just what has been done and what evidence has been
found. Let her go lively, Danny.”

There was little occasion for the last. Danny then was running nearly at
top speed up Fifth Avenue, guiding the flying car with the eye and hands
of an expert.

Policemen on the crossings stared amazedly till they caught a glimpse at
the face of the famous detective, and, when instantly recognized, they
made no attempt to stop him. They knew that only an emergency case would
take him at that high speed through the most fashionable New York
thoroughfare.

Less than ten minutes had passed when Danny swerved to the curbing near
the home of Miss Matilda Lancey. A taxicab was standing directly in
front of the house.

It was a brownstone dwelling occupying a corner lot, one of a block of
five, the house having three flats accessible through a single front
door and entrance hall.

A policeman was standing on the steps. He was talking with a slender man
in a plaid business suit, a man with an intellectual, or professional
type of countenance, with wavy hair, a pointed beard, and gold-bowed
spectacles. He had a wad of “copy paper” and pencil in his hand, and he
turned quickly when Nick and Chick ascended the steps, asking politely:

“Do you object to my going in with you, Mr. Carter? I am a city news
man. I will be very discreet as to the story I turn in, or will be
governed entirely by your wishes. I happened to be passing and saw
Officer Gilroy on the steps. He told me a murder has been committed.”

“How did you happen to recognize me?” Nick inquired, pausing briefly and
eying the man a bit sharply.

“I did not recognize you,” smiled the other. “Gilroy mentioned your name
when your car stopped at the curbing.”

“Well, I don’t know myself just what has been done here,” said Nick. “I
prefer not to grant your request immediately. You may wait here until I
have looked things over, if you like, and if I then have anything to
give you for publication, I will inform you.”

“Very well, sir. Thank you for that.”

“Which flat, Gilroy?”

“The first one, Mr. Carter,” said the policeman. “Detective Phelan is in
there. Wait in the vestibule, Mr. Hawley, if you like,” he added to the
reporter. “Mr. Carter will not forget you.”

Nick heard these added remarks, including the reporter’s name, while he
entered the house with Chick. He noticed that there were several drops
of dry blood on the polished, uncarpeted floor near the door of the
first flat.

A polished stairway led up to the second floor. There were three women
in mourning gowns seated on the upper stairs; with pale and awed gaze
they turned upon the two detectives.

Nick found the door of the first flat ajar, and he entered without
knocking. A large dark man about fifty years old was seated in one of
the armchairs in the handsomely furnished front parlor, but he at once
arose when the two detectives entered.

“I have been waiting for you, Nick,” said he, after a word in hearty
greeting. “Gordon telephoned to me after his arrest, stating that you
were coming here at his request, and asking me not to disturb things
before you arrived. I have done very little in that line, so I decided
to wait for you. That’s equivalent to admitting, you see, that I realize
your head to be longer than mine.”

“Thanks, Phelan,” said Nick, smiling faintly.

“I’m thinking, however, that this job won’t require a very long head,”
Phelan quickly added. “The truth sticks out all over it.”

“Involving Arthur Gordon?”

“I feel so sure of it that I sent a policeman, Jim Kennedy, to arrest
him.”

“As convincing as that, is it?”

“That’s what, Nick, and there’s no telling what a man might do who has
done a job of this kind. I thought I’d better get him without delay.”

Nick glanced around the room, noting a few drops of blood on the thick
Wilton carpet, a scattered trail leading through a broad, curtained
doorway into an adjoining room. One curtain of the portière was partly
torn from its pins and was hanging awry from its walnut rod.

“Step in there and have a look,” said Phelan. “Nothing can be done for
the woman, so I’ve not called a physician. She was dead and gone long
ago.”

Nick drew aside the portière and entered the adjoining room. It
evidently had been used for a living room, or a library. In the middle
of it stood a table covered with newspapers, books, and magazines.

A desk between two windows overlooking the side street, the roller
shades of which still were drawn down, had been broken open and some of
its contents were scattered over the floor.

Against the wall of an adjoining bedroom, accessible from a passageway
leading to a dining room and kitchen, stood a sofa, on which were
several handsome silk pillows. Two of them were bespattered with blood.

On the floor near one end of the sofa lay the lifeless form of the
woman. She was clad in a handsome evening dress. Her bare neck and
shoulders were covered with blood. Her luxuriant auburn hair was in
disorder, matted with blood that had flowed from several gashes in the
scalp. The skull had been beaten in with a heavy bludgeon of some kind.

She was lying on her left side, with her head nearly touching the
baseboard of the wall, from which her right hand appeared to have fallen
after a desperate effort to reach it, or to continue doing so.

In confirmation of this there was a coarse, angular, irregular scrawl on
the wall paper, several words evidently written with a tremulous hand by
the woman, and inscribed with the tip of her forefinger dipped in her
own life’s blood--a scrawl ending abruptly with a direct downward stroke
toward where her right hand was then lying. It was as if she had
expired, or lost consciousness, at least, while making a desperate
effort to write more, enough to tell in full the tragic story.

The several slanting, irregular words were legible, however, and there
was no mistaking their fateful significance.

They read:

“Arthur Gordon did this to get the----”

That was all save the last downward stroke left by the falling hand.

Was it enough?

Was it all that would be required to convict, to send her assassin over
the same dark river?

These were the first questions that arose in the mind of Nick Carter.




CHAPTER II.

THE HEADQUARTERS MAN.


Nick Carter took in with a few swift glances those important features of
the scene already mentioned. Instead of immediately beginning a more
careful inspection, however, he turned to the headquarters man and said:

“Am I to understand, Phelan, that things are about as you found them?”

“Yes. Nothing has been disturbed, Nick, of any importance.”

“Was the woman lying in that position?”

“Yes. I have not touched the body. I saw that writing on the wall,
and----”

“One moment,” Nick interposed. “Who discovered the crime?”

“A girl who lives in the second flat. She came down about eight o’clock
to go out to work, and she saw spots of blood on the hall floor near the
door of this flat.”

“I noticed them when I entered.”

“She tried the door, and found it locked. It has an automatic lock. She
then rang repeatedly, being acquainted with Miss Lancey, but she could
get no response.”

“Does this woman live alone here?”

“Yes, so I am told, except when entertaining her friends.”

“I see.”

“The girl then called her mother, and they hunted for Gilroy, who is on
this beat. He entered through the kitchen window, forcing it open, and
he then saw what had occurred. I happened to be in the precinct station
when he telephoned,” added Phelan, pointing to a telephone on a stand in
one corner. “I came here with Kennedy, taking temporary charge of the
case, and I soon found evidence enough to warrant sending him to arrest
Mr. Gordon.”

“You mean that writing on the wall?”

“Yes, partly.”

“What else?”

“I found this letter in the wastebasket,” said Phelan, taking it from
his pocket. “It must have been written by Gordon, for it is on a letter
sheet bearing his business heading, as does the envelope in which it
came.”

“Let me see them.”

“It was mailed at two o’clock yesterday. It contains only a single line
addressed to Miss Lancey, stating that Gordon would call to see her here
at eleven o’clock. That must have been eleven o’clock last evening.”

Nick glanced at the brief pen-written letter. He was familiar with
Gordon’s writing, and he immediately recognized it. The letter seemed to
corroborate all of Phelan’s statements.

“Did you think that was evidence enough to warrant arresting Gordon?”
Nick again inquired.

“I thought it enough for a starter, Nick, at least,” Phelan bluntly
asserted. “I reckon I have not shot very wide of the mark.”

“Why so?”

“Because Kennedy has phoned me of other facts.”

“Namely?”

“He met Dennis Regan, a detective from the precinct station, just before
he arrived at the Gordon residence,” Phelan proceeded to disclose. “He
told Regan what had occurred and whom he was after. Regan decided he
would not butt in, knowing I was on the case, but he waited in the
grounds south of the house while Kennedy went in to see Gordon.”

“Well?”

“While he was out there, pacing up and down the gravel walk, he noticed
that one of the small branches of a clump of shrubbery was partly broken
off and hanging down, as if something had recently been thrown in among
the shrubs, disturbing the dry leaves that had fallen from them.”

“He went to examine them, I infer.”

“That’s what. He found under the dry leaves a double-jointed jimmy. It
was parted at the socket each section being about eight inches long, and
both were badly stained with blood.”

“Quite a remarkable discovery,” Nick observed, with brows knitting
slightly. “Anything more?”

“Well, as far as that goes, this desk evidently was forced open with
just such a jimmy,” Phelan continued, turning to the desk. “Here are
marks on the wood, showing plainly where the curving, wedge-shaped
point was forced under the top to pry it up and break the lock.”

“I see,” Nick nodded. “That’s very evident, Phelan, indeed.”

“The jimmy found by Regan has just that kind of a point.”

“Still more evidence, eh?”

“I think so, Nick. It’s a safe bet, too, that this woman’s head was
broken with the same jimmy. The fractures and gashes show plainly that a
bludgeon of that kind was used.”

“I agree with you,” said Nick, crouching to inspect the several terrible
wounds. “Both the fractures and gashes could have been caused only with
a bludgeon having one or more edges. The jimmy is probably octagonal in
shape.”

“Very likely. I did not inquire about that.”

“Well, what followed?”

“Regan then decided to dip into the case,” Phelan continued. “He went
into the house and found that Kennedy had discovered other evidence.”

“What kind of evidence?”

“To begin with, Nick, Gordon refused to say where he was at eleven
o’clock last night. Kennedy then told him about the murder and placed
him under arrest. To make a long story short, for I have not all of the
details, Gordon’s evening suit, which he admits having worn last night,
was found spattered with blood.”

“H’m, is that so?”

“There are stains of blood in one pocket of his overcoat, also, as if
the jimmy was disjointed and thrust into it after the murder. You can
see for yourself that the weapon used by the assassin is missing.”

“Yes, so I have noticed.”

“In the other pocket of Gordon’s overcoat was a disguise, a false beard
and mustache. They----”

“One moment,” Nick interrupted. “Gordon saw all of this evidence, I
suppose.”

“Yes, certainly.”

“What did he say about it?”

“Nothing.”

“Nothing?”

“He refused positively to make any statements whatever,” Phelan
explained. “He said he would not do so until after he had conferred with
you. Regan then allowed him to telephone to you, and, while waiting for
Gordon to get ready to accompany him, he phoned these facts to me.”

“Where is Gordon now?”

“On his way to police headquarters, if not already there,” said Phelan.
“Both Regan and Kennedy went with him.”

“Taking the evidence mentioned.”

“Yes, certainly.”

“And that’s all you know about the case?”

“Isn’t that enough?” Phelan asked bluntly. “What more would you have? It
tells the story plainly enough.”

“What story?” inquired Nick tentatively. “What is your theory?”

“It can be told with a breath,” Phelan declared. “Gordon came here to
get something from this woman. His letter shows that he had an
appointment with her at eleven last night. She refused to give him what
he wanted, evidently something which he knew was in this desk. He came
prepared to get it at any cost.”

“I follow you,” Nick nodded.

“When he found that she would not give it up, he killed her with the
jimmy and then broke open the desk with it. Here are stains of blood on
the desk, showing that it was forced after the murder was committed.”

“That appears probable,” Nick allowed.

“Gordon probably found what he wanted, and then fled,” Phelan went on.
“The woman afterward revived sufficiently to realize the situation, also
that she was near her end. She must have been too weak to rise, or to
make herself heard. But she dragged herself near enough to the wall to
write these few words on it with the tip of her finger, dipped in the
pool of blood. The smooches of blood on the carpet show plainly that she
dragged herself over the floor. She evidently died, or fainted, before
she could complete what she would have written. That’s my theory,
Carter.”

“Very good,” said Nick, a bit dryly. “All that seems very logical,
Phelan, and you’re some theorist. I will look around a bit, however, and
see what more I can find.”

“Go ahead,” Phelan nodded. “The day is young.”

It then was only half past nine.

Instead of immediately doing so, however, Nick abruptly changed his
mind. He turned to Chick and said:

“I first must see Gordon and see what he has to say. His statements may
be of aid in making an investigation. I can run down to headquarters
with my car and be back here in half an hour.”

“Easily.”

“Let nothing be disturbed until I return. Admit no one, Phelan, nor give
out anything for publication. Gordon is in a position to be ruined
politically by this affair. I know he is the last man in the world,
however, to have committed such a crime as this.”

“I agree with you, Nick, to that extent.”

“And that leads me to think it may be a frame-up, that some one is out
to turn him down. I want his side of the story. I will return within an
hour.”

“We’ll wait,” nodded Phelan.

“In the meantime, Chick, have a look at the back door and windows, also
those in the basement, as well as the basement stairs,” Nick then
directed. “Seek evidence, aside from that left by Gilroy, denoting that
others were here last night and that the flat was stealthily entered.”

“I understand,” said Chick, removing his overcoat. “You go ahead and see
Gordon. I’ll make sure that nothing is tampered with before you return.”

Nick hastened out by the way he had entered.

The reporter, Hawley, still was waiting in the vestibule.

“Well, Mr. Carter, what may I----” he began eagerly.

“Nothing doing,” Nick interrupted, pausing only for a moment. “The less
you publish at present, the better I shall like it.”

“You mean----”

“That’s all I mean, and all I can remain to say. Bear it in mind, Mr.
Hawley, and be governed accordingly.”

Nick did not wait for an answer, nor to note the effect of his somewhat
curt remarks. He at once ran down the steps and entered his touring car.

“To police headquarters, Danny, at top speed,” he directed. “We have a
rapid-fire case on our hands.”

Hawley came out on the steps and gazed after the speeding car. He now
was frowning darkly. There was an anxious gleam and glitter deep down
in the narrowed eyes back of his gold-bowed spectacles. His pointed
beard twitched and quivered perceptibly while he bit his lower lip.

After a moment, nevertheless, he turned calmly to the policeman and
asked, with curious coolness:

“Where has he gone?”

“Give it up,” said Gilroy tersely. “He never tells where he’s going, nor
what he has up his sleeve. Nick Carter isn’t that kind.”

“He might have said, at least, whether I could enter the flat and----”

“Rats!” Gilroy growled. “Did you want it written down with a slate and
pencil? He as much as said you couldn’t enter. There’s nothing for you
in waiting.”

Hawley waited, nevertheless.




CHAPTER III.

NICK TAKES A CHANCE.


Nick Carter found Gordon seated in a detention room at police
headquarters, accompanied by Regan, Kennedy, and the police
commissioner.

The two officers had arrived with their prisoner several minutes before,
bringing also the evidence mentioned by Phelan. Despite the persuasive
arguments of the commissioner, however, for the two men were personal
friends, Gordon had positively refused to make any statements about the
case, or to discuss the threatening situation in which he was involved.

He sprang up eagerly, nevertheless, when Nick entered, and a tinge of
color appeared in his pale cheeks. He extended his hand, saying
fervently:

“Thank Heaven, Carter, that you have arrived. I was just about to
request that I might telephone to you again. I seem to be in a deucedly
bad mess. I can depend only upon you to pull me out of it.”

“I will try to do so, Gordon, of course,” Nick replied, after a word of
greeting for the others. “Have you told----”

“I have told nothing,” Gordon interrupted. “Nor will I, Nick, except in
a private interview with you. I then will state all that I know about
this infernal business.”

“Well, that can be arranged, I think,” Nick replied, turning to the
commissioner. “Have you any objection?”

“None whatever, Nick,” was the reply. “I know of no man I would rather
have on the case. Go as far as you like.”

The commissioner at once withdrew with Regan and Kennedy, and Nick took
the chair the former vacated.

“Now, Gordon, hand me straight goods and be quick about it,” he said
forcibly. “I have been to Tilly Lancey’s flat and know what has been
found there, also what Regan and Kennedy have discovered that appears to
incriminate you. It goes without saying, however, that I don’t take much
stock in it. I must have the whole truth from you, nevertheless, if I am
to pull you out of the fire.”

“Have you seen----”

“Don’t delay to question me,” Nick interrupted insistently. “I shall see
all there is to be seen. Merely answer my questions as briefly as
possible. Did you call on Tilly Lancey last evening?”

“Yes, I did,” Gordon admitted.

“Did you mail her a letter stating that you would visit her at eleven
o’clock?”

“Yes.”

“For what? What relations have you had with a woman of her stamp?”

“That can be quickly told,” said Gordon. “I was stopped on Fifth Avenue
three days ago by a fashionably dressed woman, closely veiled. She asked
me to give her a few minutes’ conversation, stating that she had
important information for me, something that would have a favorable
bearing upon my election to congress.”

“You consented?”

“Yes.”

“What followed?”

“She then said that she had in her possession a package of letters
written to her by my political opponent, John Madison, the nature of
which, if made public, would ruin him politically and insure his
defeat.”

“H’m, I see.”

“She said that she would allow me to read them, that I might judge for
myself of the effect their publication would have, and to which she
would consent on conditions that she would state after I had read the
letters.”

“What reply did you make?” Nick questioned.

“Naturally, being very anxious to carry this election, I questioned her
further,” said Gordon. “She would reveal nothing more definite, however,
unless I would call on her and examine the letters.”

“Do you mean, Gordon, that she did not then reveal her identity?” Nick
inquired.

“Oh, no, not that,” Gordon said quickly. “I told her that I would not
consider such a proposition from any unknown woman. She then drew her
veil aside and I recognized her.”

“Matilda Lancey?”

“Yes.”

“You say you recognized her,” said Nick. “How long have you known her?”

“I never spoke to her before in my life,” Gordon earnestly assured him.
“I long have known her by name and reputation, however, and I at once
decided that I would not consider her proposal.”

“Quite right, I’m sure.”

“I told her so, Nick, but she insisted upon my taking her address and
her telephone number, lest I should change my mind,” Gordon went on.
“She said that I could communicate with her, in that case, and that was
all during that meeting.”

“Well, what more?”

“I did not then intend to give the matter another thought,” said Gordon.
“I could not keep it out of my mind, however, for I am having a hard
political fight and seeking every possible lever with which to swing the
election my way.”

“In short, Gordon, you finally decided to call on Tilly Lancey and read
the Madison letters,” said Nick, interrupting.

“That’s the main point. I did, Nick, and I tried to get her by telephone
yesterday morning,” bowed Gordon. “I was unable to do so, however, and I
then wrote a line to her and dropped it in the mail when I went out to
lunch.”

“Did you afterward hear from her or try to telephone to her?”

“No. I took it for granted that she would receive my note and that I
would find her at home at the time mentioned.”

“Why did you set so late an hour?”

“Because I had a political appointment which I knew would detain me
until nearly eleven o’clock.”

“Enough of that, then,” said Nick. “It covers that part of the ground.
At what time did you arrive at her flat?”

“It was after eleven, nearly half past.”

“You found her at home?”

“Yes.”

“Alone?”

“Yes, so far as I knew.”

“What followed?”

“I had removed my--but I am getting ahead of my story,” Gordon broke
off. “Knowing the reputation of the woman, Nick, and that my face has
become a very familiar one because of the political placards about town,
and apprehending that I might be recognized, if seen going there, and
incur adverse and unjust criticism, I resolved to visit her in
disguise.”

“I see,” said Nick, without further comments.

“As I was saying,” Gordon continued, “I removed my disguise in the
vestibule, and Miss Lancey admitted me a moment later. She invited me
into the room back of the front parlor.”

“I know,” Nick nodded. “What then occurred?”

“She then came to the point and said plainly that she wanted to sell me
the letters Madison had written to her. She stated that they were of so
compromising a character that, if published, his defeat in the coming
election would be inevitable.”

“That’s about what I suspected,” Nick remarked.

“She offered to give them to me and permit me to have them published,
either personally or indirectly, for ten thousand dollars. She did most
of the talking, Nick, and that’s about all that was said.”

“You mean----”

“I mean, of course, that I would not resort to such despicable means
even to insure my election,” Gordon interrupted more forcibly. “I told
her so, also what I thought of her and her proposition, and I then left
the house.”

“Did she accompany you to the door?”

“No. I departed in haste and disgust, both for her and myself, for
having gone there.”

“What was she doing when you left?”

“She was seated on a sofa in the rear parlor. I paused in the vestibule
only to replace my disguise, and I then hastened home. That was the last
I saw of her, or want to see.”

“I understand.”

“You can imagine my amazement and consternation, therefore, when I was
arrested this morning for having murdered her, to say nothing of being
confronted with such evidence as has been discovered,” Gordon added. “I
tell you, Nick, nevertheless, that I----”

“Never mind telling me, Gordon, for time is of value,” Nick again
interposed. “Merely answer my questions. Did you see the package of
letters she claimed to have had?”

“I did not, Nick. She said they were in her desk.”

“Was the desk closed?”

“Yes, and locked. It is a roll top, which locks automatically when the
cover is rolled completely down. I noticed that it was tightly closed.”

“It was locked, Gordon, all right,” said Nick. “Did you remove your
overcoat while talking with Miss Lancey?”

“Yes.”

“Did you put it on before leaving the flat?”

“No. I put it on after reaching the street. I merely took my disguise
from the pocket and put that on while in the vestibule,” Gordon
thoughtfully explained. “I then hurried out to the street. I may have
walked half a block before putting on my overcoat, for I was feeling a
bit warm and resentful. It irritated me that the woman thought me
capable of such beastly business.”

“She sized you up from her own standpoint,” Nick remarked. “Can you in
any way account for spots of blood on your suit, your overcoat, and in
one of the pockets of the latter?”

“No, Nick, most emphatically,” Gordon declared. “I am entirely in the
dark.”

“Am I to understand, then, that you now have told me all that you know
about the crime, or any circumstances that might have a bearing on it?”
Nick inquired.

“Yes, absolutely all,” said Gordon. “I know nothing whatever about the
crime itself, Nick, nor have I the slightest suspicion as to who
committed it.”

“How did you return home?”

“I took a subway train.”

“Were you then in disguise?”

“No. I removed it before arriving at the subway station, and thrust it
into my pocket.”

“Did you meet any one with whom you are acquainted?”

“I don’t think so. I noticed no one. I hurried home and went directly to
bed. Really, Nick, that is all I can tell you.”

“That will answer, then,” said the detective. “Are these the articles
brought from your residence?”

“Yes.”

Nick had arisen abruptly and turned to a table near one of the walls.
Lying on it were the disjointed sections of a burglar’s jimmy, one of
which was stained with blood; also Gordon’s evening suit, his overcoat,
and the disguise worn the previous night.

Nick examined all of them carefully, noting the spots of blood on the
black suit, consisting of several scattered drops on the left sleeve and
left pants leg, as if bespattered from a gushing wound.

There was only a single spot on the overcoat, however, and that was near
the bloodstained pocket.

“It’s a mystery to me, Nick, a damnable mystery,” said Gordon, after
waiting for the detective to express an opinion. “This is likely to ruin
my chances of election, to say nothing of----”

“Say nothing is what you must do,” Nick interrupted. “I will try to
ferret out the truth, Gordon, before the publication of the superficial
facts can do you any harm.”

“A thousand thanks, Nick,” said Gordon gratefully. “I knew I could
depend on you.”

“We will confide in the commissioner, however, and I think I can prevail
on him to liberate you and state that your arrest was due to a mistake.”

“Really? I would be doubly grateful for that.”

“The commissioner knows you as well as I do, Gordon, and he will realize
that your defeat in the near election may result from holding you under
arrest. That must be prevented, if possible.”

“I will return home, Nick, and remain there subject to his orders,” said
Gordon, eager to bring it about. “Or he can have an officer go there to
watch me.”

“I think I can make him see, Gordon, that you are most likely the victim
of a plot, rather than guilty of this crime,” Nick replied. “All this
will necessitate my breaking a record to find absolute evidence in proof
of it, however, and I shall leave you immediately after talking with
him. You keep your mouth closed after that, and be patient till you hear
from me.”

“I will do both, Nick,” Gordon assured him.

“I’ll be off, then, after a talk with the commissioner. Come with me. I
also want him to hold these articles subject to my order. I think I may
find a use for them.”




CHAPTER IV.

NICK’S CAPITAL WORK.


Nick Carter easily won the commissioner to his own views, and he then
returned at top speed to the Columbus Avenue flat. None could have
realized more keenly that time was of value, that the political fate of
his friend and client, to say nothing of his life, even, depended upon
what he could quickly accomplish.

Nick felt that he was equal to the emergency, however, as well as sure
of his man, and he was shaping his course accordingly. It was precisely
half past ten when he arrived, for the second time, at the home of the
murdered woman.

Hawley, the reporter, still was waiting for information. Other reporters
had arrived and were blocking the steps. Most of them recognized the
detective and awaited him eagerly.

“Nothing doing, gentlemen, at present,” said Nick, threading his way
between them. “It’s too early in the game. Wait till I have dug up
something definite.”

“But I have been told that the Honorable Arthur Gordon has been arrested
on suspicion,” said a persistent one. “Is that true, Mr. Carter?”

“No, no, quite the contrary,” Nick coolly asserted. “Gordon went down to
headquarters voluntarily, merely to explain certain circumstances that
seemed at that time to have a bearing on the case. That was all a
mistake. Gordon is at liberty and has returned to his residence in
Riverside Drive. If you publish anything to the contrary, you will make
a most egregious blunder.”

“But he was placed under arrest, wasn’t he?” Hawley demanded
impulsively.

Nick swung round and eyed him more sharply. There was something about
him he did not fancy, something that in a vague way impressed him that
they had met before, but he then was in too great haste to seriously
consider the fleeting impression. He lingered only for a moment,
replying a bit curtly:

“No, no, there has been no arrest. Nothing of the kind. No arrests will
be made, in fact, until evidence is found that will warrant it. That’s
all, gentlemen, at present.”

Nick turned with the last and strode into the hall.

Hawley gazed after him furtively, with eyes dilating and his pointed
beard twitching nervously. He remained only for a moment longer, then
descended the steps and hurried away.

Nick found Chick and Phelan patiently waiting for him, though the
former immediately greeted him with anxious inquiry.

“Well, is it as bad as it looks?”

“It’s bad enough, Chick,” Nick replied, removing his overcoat and
tossing it on a chair in the front room.

“I reckoned you’d think so,” said Phelan.

Nick turned and replied more impressively:

“That isn’t all I think. I am going to confide in you, Phelan, and tell
you what I have done and why I have done it.”

Phelan instantly turned more grave.

“It goes without saying, Nick, that whatever you do or have done will be
for the best,” he replied. “Do you think I made a mistake in having
Gordon arrested so quickly?”

“It would have been better to have deferred it,” said Nick. “I admit,
nevertheless, that the circumstances seemed to warrant it.”

“I certainly thought so.”

“That’s neither here nor there, now, for I have talked with the chief
and had Gordon liberated. I gave the chief my word that I would find
evidence refuting that involving Gordon, and that I would also run down
the real criminals. It now is up to me to make good.”

“I hope you’ve not bitten off more than you can chew,” said Phelan
inelegantly.

“I don’t think so.”

“What did Gordon say for himself?” Chick inquired.

Nick then told both what Gordon had stated, also his own reasons for the
steps he had taken.

“Either he did this, or he did not,” he said forcibly in conclusion. “I
feel sure he did not. Who did kill this woman, then, and with what
motive? We now will try to find out.”

“Gordon’s story certainly is a plausible one,” Chick declared. “It
explains his visit, his letter, and why the disguise was in his pocket.
All were mystifying points, as well as seriously suspicious.”

“But think what it doesn’t explain,” argued Phelan, still doubtful. “If
others killed this woman after Gordon departed, and if he went directly
home, as stated, how came blood on his garments, even in his overcoat
pocket, as if that gory jimmy had been carried away in it? How came the
jimmy under shrubbery in Gordon’s grounds? It must be the jimmy with
which the woman was killed. Where are the Madison letters, if he didn’t
get them, and why----”

“Hold your horses, Phelan,” Nick interrupted, then hurriedly searching
the open desk. “Don’t ask so many questions. They cannot be answered in
advance of an investigation. We have only Tilly Lancey’s word for it,
mind you, that a package of Madison’s letters were here, aside from the
fact that some one broke into the desk. They are no longer here, at all
events, for I have searched it thoroughly.”

“By Jove, this may have been a job to kill two birds with one stone,”
said Chick.

“What d’ye mean?” Phelan growled.

“A job not only to get the Madison letters, but also to do it in such a
way to fix the crime upon Gordon and defeat him in the coming election.”

“Humph!” grunted Phelan.

“Could you find any evidence, Chick, that others were here last night?”
Nick paused and inquired.

“Not an atom, Nick.”

“You searched----”

“Everywhere,” Chick interrupted. “The only window tampered with is that
through which Gilroy entered this morning. There is not a sign of
anything more. If others were here, they must have been admitted by the
woman herself or----”

“Stop a moment,” Nick cut in. “Here is a partly written letter addressed
to a woman named Cora, merely an invitation to dine.”

“That’s Cora Cavendish,” said Phelan. “She has been Tilly Lancey’s
running mate for a year. She’s a bird of the same feather.”

“Where does she live?” asked Chick.

“She has apartments in the Nordeck, in Forty-fourth Street. She’s a fly
jade, if ever there was one.”

“Possibly, then----”

“Wait!” Nick again interrupted. “Here’s an important point. It convinces
me that I am right.”

“Right in what?” came from Phelan.

“That Tilly Lancey did not write these words on the wall.”

“Great Scott! Is that so? What’s the point?”

Nick displayed the partly written letter found in the desk, then turned
to the wall on which the incriminating words were inscribed.

“Notice the capital A in Gordon’s given name,” said he, pointing. “It
has the proper form for the capital. Here, in this letter, are no less
than three of the same capitals, and all of a different shape.”

“How different?”

“They are the enlarged form of the small letter, a form which many
persons use when writing that capital,” said Nick. “If it appeared only
once, it might be attributed to chance, but all three show plainly that
Tilly Lancey habitually wrote the capital A in the form of the small
letter. Here is the other form, however, in this writing on the wall.
Don’t expect me to believe that this woman would, under such
circumstances, have changed her habit of writing.”

“By Jove, that is important,” said Chick, eyes lighting.

“But why blood on the tip of her forefinger?” Phelan protested. “Isn’t
that enough evidence that she----”

“It is not reliable evidence,” Nick objected, interrupting.

“But the size of her finger tip corresponds with the marks on the wall.”

“That cuts no ice,” Nick again insisted. “Clever crooks, bent upon this
deception, would have dragged the woman near enough to the wall, after
killing her, to grasp her lax hand and finger and forced it to inscribe
the desired words. That is precisely what was done. This inconsistency
in the capital A alone convinces me of that.”

“I am not so sure of it, Carter, all the same,” Phelan still objected.

“Well, I am, Phelan, and I was reasonably sure of it from the first,”
said Nick.

“Why so?”

“Notice her fractured skull. Such wounds are prohibitive. Tilly Lancey
did not recover consciousness, to say nothing of having revived
sufficiently to write these words. Furthermore, if she had, she would
not have done so.”

“You mean?”

“Here is the telephone stand scarce three feet away,” Nick continued.
“With consciousness and reason restored, and sufficient strength to
have dragged herself to the wall and written these words, she would have
taken a simpler method to expose her assailant.”

“You mean with the telephone.”

“Certainly. It was directly in front of her. She must have seen it. Even
if she could not rise, she could have tipped over the stand and got hold
of the instrument. In half the time it would have taken her to dip her
finger in blood and write these words, she could have told the whole
story to a telephone operator, or even have called up the police.”

“By gracious, Nick, that admits of no argument,” said Chick
emphatically. “She surely would have done so. The several circumstances
combined leave no room for a doubt.”

“I think so, too,” Phelan nodded. “I guess you are right, Carter, after
all. I blundered like a fool in getting after Gordon so quickly.”

Nick did not reply.

Crouching beside the corpse of the murdered woman, he took a lens from
his pocket and examined her bloodstained finger tip, her hand and wrist,
the several wounds in her matted hair, and then he surprised both of his
observers by taking out his own handkerchief and dipping it in some of
the partly congealed blood, afterward folding it and replacing it in his
pocket.

“What’s that for?” Phelan inquired, with brows knit perplexedly.

“Further study,” Nick tersely replied, rising. “I am going to leave you,
Phelan, to notify the coroner and take the necessary legal steps. Bear
in mind, however, that all this is strictly confidential for the
present. Publication might prove disastrous.”

“Trust me,” Phelan assured him. “I’m dumb, Nick, till you remove the
seal of silence. You have something else up your sleeve, I infer.”

“Exactly.”

“Go ahead, then, and good luck. I’ll look after things here while you
get in your work.”

“Good enough, Phelan,” said Nick, shaking hands with him. “I’ll
reciprocate in some way when----”

“Cut that!” Phelan interrupted. “You know I am always at your service.
Go ahead and get in your work.”

Nick did not delay his departure. He left the house with Chick and
returned to his touring car.

“Home, Danny,” he directed. “I’ll let him drop me there, Chick, and then
take you to headquarters. I want Gordon’s garments and that bloodstained
jimmie. Tell the commissioner I will be responsible for their safe
return. Bring them to the library.”




CHAPTER V.

NICK CARTER’S ANALYSIS.


“Yes, it is human blood. There is no question about it. It is human
blood--but not from the veins of Matilda Lancey.”

These declarations came from Nick Carter about three o’clock that
afternoon. They were addressed to Chick and his junior assistant, Patsy
Garvan.

All three detectives then were seated at a broad zinc-covered table in
Nick’s finely equipped laboratory, a large rear room in his Madison
Avenue residence.

Lying on the table were the bloodstained articles belonging to Arthur
Gordon, the disjointed jimmy, and also the handkerchief which Nick had
dipped in the blood of the murdered woman.

Near by stood a costly microscope, a stand of small test tubes, several
vials containing chemicals, together with numerous other articles which
Nick had been using.

He replaced on the table one section of the jimmy, while speaking, and
Patsy took it up to gaze at the dark-red stains on it, remarking, with
some surprise:

“Human blood, chief, but not from the veins of the murdered woman? Gee
whiz! that’s mighty significant. Are you sure of it?”

“Absolutely sure,” said Nick.

“You now have tested the blood on each of these articles?” Chick
inquired.

“Yes.”

“And the results are convincing?”

“Decidedly convincing,” said Nick, with a look of satisfaction on his
strong, clean-cut face. “There is no question as to the reliability of a
microscopic examination of particles of blood, if made by a person
thoroughly informed on the subject. I have, as you know, made an
exhaustive study of it.”

“I am aware of that, Nick, of course.”

“The blood of no two creatures is precisely alike,” Nick continued.
“Under the microscope, and with proper tests, that of two human beings,
even, presents certain distinct differences, often by a small margin, of
course, but nevertheless clearly distinct.”

“So I have read,” Chick nodded.

“It is perfectly easy to tell the blood of a white man from that of a
negro, that of a lower animal from that of a man, or that of one animal
from that of another, as well as to determine the animal from which it
comes. That is because the blood of each crystallizes in invariable
definite forms.”

“Gee, that’s some study!” Patsy remarked sententiously.

“The existence of disease is also apparent under the microscope and with
proper tests,” Nick went on. “Science immediately recognizes one from
another. Thin, anæmic blood presents a distinctly different appearance
from the strong, rich blood of a vigorous person. That’s the very point,
in connection with this case, without further elaboration on the
subject.”

“These bloodstains tell the story, do they?” questioned Patsy.

“They tell part of it, Patsy, with absolute certainty,” Nick replied.
“The blood on my handkerchief, which we know positively came from
Matilda Lancey, is very rich with red corpuscles, obviously that of a
strong, healthy woman.”

“Tilly Lancey looked it,” Chick observed.

“The blood on these articles, however, shows a distinct difference,”
said Nick. “There is a decided lack of the red corpuscles. It is thin
and anæmic. It is human blood, nevertheless, and it came from a woman.
The proportion of red corpuscles in the stains on each of these
articles, with the exception of my handkerchief, plainly shows that same
anæmic condition.”

“In other words, then, the stains on the jimmy and on Gordon’s garments
are not caused by the blood of Tilly Lancey,” said Chick.

“They are not,” Nick replied. “I am absolutely sure of that. It is
distinctly different from the blood on my handkerchief. That on these
other articles came from a rather frail and delicate woman, very
probably with a tendency to consumption.”

“Gee whiz! that suggests something to me, chief,” said Patsy, drawing
nearer the table.

“What is that?”

“I have frequently seen Tilly Lancey with the woman referred to by
Phelan as her running mate, the woman named Cora Cavendish. She is just
that type, chief, slender and noticeably pale, barring the rouge with
which she hides it.”

“That is suggestive, indeed, Patsy,” Nick agreed. “But I already
suspected that Cora Cavendish had a hand in this job.”

“Why so, chief?”

“Because I now am sure that it was a frame-up, and because the intimacy
between Cora Cavendish and Tilly Lancey, now knowing that the blood on
these articles came from a second woman, probably made the job
possible.”

“I see.”

“In other words,” Nick added; “I suspect that Cora Cavendish and one or
more confederates are responsible for the whole business. I’m doubly
sure of it, in fact, if she is that anæmic type of woman.”

“By Jove, I think you may be right,” said Chick, more earnestly. “But
there are a good many points that I cannot fathom.”

“To begin with?” inquired Nick.

“We must assume that Gordon has told the truth, of course, and that he
left Tilly Lancey alive just before midnight.”

“Certainly.”

“And that he immediately hastened home?”

“I have no doubt of it.”

“How, then, came the blood on his garments?”

“Bear in mind, Chick, that it is not Tilly Lancey’s blood,” said Nick.
“It is some that was obtained for this job. The crooks knew that human
blood would be required, as tests would surely be made after the crime;
but they overlooked the fact, or were ignorant of it, that tests would
reveal the difference between it and that of their victim.”

“You now think, I infer, that the blood was drawn from the veins of Cora
Cavendish.”

“I do,” Nick nodded. “Only a small quantity would have been required. It
could have been easily obtained by an incision in one of the veins of
her arm, and received in a small vial.”

“But when and how could it have been spattered upon Gordon’s garments,
to say nothing of the smooches in his overcoat pocket?”

“Easily,” said Nick.

“Tell me.”

“Assume, for instance, that several persons comprised the gang. They
laid their plans, paved the way to execute them, and provided themselves
with the blood required.”

“Well?”

“Tilly Lancey may have been duped into admitting one of them to her flat
last night, possibly more, and they may have been concealed there during
her interview with Gordon. That could have been craftily accomplished by
Cora Cavendish, if she was out to deceive and murder her intimate
friend.”

“I admit that much, Nick, of course,” Chick allowed.

“Tilly Lancey could have been killed, then, and probably was,
immediately after Gordon left the house,” Nick continued. “She was
struck down with a jimmy, which was afterward used to pry open her desk,
and later carried away by her assailants.”

“But you say the blood on this jimmy is not Tilly Lancey’s blood.”

“True,” Nick nodded. “This is not the jimmy used for the murder, mind
you, but one precisely like it.”

“Ah, I see.”

“The crooks were working along fine lines,” Nick pointed out. “They
wanted a weapon found that would correspond with the wounds inflicted.
So they got two like jimmies, one of which they stained with blood and
concealed after a fashion in Gordon’s grounds. I say after a fashion,
Chick, because they designedly put it where it would soon be
discovered.”

“Two like jimmies, eh?” said Chick. “You may be right. I think you are,
in fact, or the blood on this one would be that of the murdered woman.”

“Surely. That’s the very point.”

“But who stained this one and put it where it was found?”

“Another of the crooks, one who was waiting outside of the house while
Gordon was there,” said Nick. “He was the one who had the vial of blood,
also the duplicate jimmy. The vial may have been provided with a stopper
like those in the bottles used by a barber, from which a few drops can
be easily shaken.”

“I see the point.”

“Gordon, mind you, did not put on his overcoat until after he had walked
about a block,” Nick continued. “It would have been child’s play for the
crook to have followed him, and, while passing him, to have stealthily
dashed a few drops of the blood on his garments.”

“That’s right, chief, for fair,” cried Patsy. “There would have been
nothing to it.”

“Gordon was a bit upset, moreover, and he did not afterward notice the
spots on the black cloth, which would have quickly absorbed it.”

“All that is plain enough,” Chick admitted. “But how about the overcoat
pocket. How was the blood put into that?”

“It would have been equally easy.”

“By what means?”

“Very much the same,” said Nick. “The crook could have continued to
follow him, taking the same seat with him in the subway train. He could
have stealthily soiled his own hand with a few drops of the blood, and
then slipped it for a moment into Gordon’s overcoat pocket. Any sly
fellow might do that.”

“Very true,” Chick nodded. “There is no denying it.”

“He then must have followed Gordon home, where he stained the duplicate
jimmy with blood and hid it under the shrubbery. All would have been
very simple and easily accomplished.”

“I now admit it, Nick,” Chick said thoughtfully. “But what about the
drops of blood in the front room and hall adjoining the flat?”

“That was Tilly Lancey’s blood,” said Nick. “The crooks who killed her
scattered that trail of blood, that it might indicate that it had
dropped from the hand of her assassin when he left the house. That
naturally would appear to have been Gordon.”

“I agree with you,” Chick again assented. “You certainly have gone deep
below the surface, Nick, and developed a plausible theory.”

“Plausible!” exclaimed Patsy, a bit derisively. “Jiminy crickets! that
plausible gag don’t half express it, Chick. It’s a copper-riveted cinch.
There’s nothing else to it.”

“There is considerable more to it, Patsy,” Nick corrected. “The theory
alone is not enough. It might fall flat on the ears of a jury of
boneheads. It’s not easy to penetrate solid ivory.”

“That’s right, too,” said Patsy, laughing.

“We must clinch it, therefore, by learning positively whether Cora
Cavendish had a hand in this crime. We must discover the identity of her
confederates, and round them up in such a way as to fix the crime upon
them.”

“That’s the proper caper, chief, for fair.”

“Have you any suspicions, Nick, as to their identity?” Chick inquired.

“Aside from Cora Cavendish?”

“Certainly.”

“Yes.”

“On what do you base it, and whom have you in mind?”

“To begin with, Chick, I base it on the probable existence of the
Madison letters, and the fact that they were missing this morning from
Tilly Lancey’s desk. Bear in mind that she told Gordon about them and
invited him to her flat to read them. She may have told Cora Cavendish
about them, also, and if double-crossed by the latter, as I suspect, she
certainly had no apprehension of being murdered when she invited Gordon
to her flat.”

“Surely not.”

“It is a safe assumption, then, that the package of letters was in her
desk last evening, as she told him.”

“True.”

“That is further confirmed by the fact that the desk was broken open by
her assailants, who probably could not find the key. If the murder of
Tilly Lancey was their only object, they would not have broken open the
desk.”

“True again,” Chick nodded.

“There was a package of compromising letters, then, and they now are in
the hands of the woman’s assassins--barring one very possible
contingency.”

“What is that?”

“That the man who wrote them, whose reputation they evidently involved,
was back of the whole job in order to get the letters, and to
incriminate Arthur Gordon as to insure his defeat in the coming
election. He now may have the letters.”

“Jack Madison,” said Chick.

“Yes.”

“It seems incredible that he----”

“Oh, I anticipate your objection,” Nick interrupted. “But as I told you
this morning, Chick, men with political ambitions, some men, I mean, are
capable of any degree of knavery.”

“That’s right, too, chief,” declared Patsy.

“Madison is a strong, aggressive, bulldog type of man, and his standing
as a lawyer is far from the best,” Nick added. “He was abroad without
his wife and family for several weeks last year and I happen to know
that Tilly Lancey then was absent from New York. They returned at pretty
near the same time. One must draw one’s own conclusions. Be that as it
may, I suspect Madison of knowing something about this affair, whether
he was responsible for it, or not.”

“My money goes on that, chief,” said Patsy. “We must get after him.”

“I intend doing so.”

“Have you any other suspicions?”

“One other, Chick.”

“Namely?”

“It is rather more than a suspicion,” Nick continued, with brows
drooping. “I felt it vaguely this morning, but I then was in too great
haste to be deeply enough impressed to act upon it, or rightly interpret
it.”

“When do you mean?”

“When I returned from police headquarters and found that reporter,
Hawley, still waiting at Tilly Lancey’s door,” said Nick. “I feel sure,
now, that I know why he was there, and how he happened to be there so
far in advance of other genuine reporters.”

“Genuine?”

“That’s the word.”

“You think he is not a reporter.”

“I would stake my reputation on that,” said Nick, with ominous
intonation. “I eyed the man more closely than when I first saw him,
Chick, and it was then that I vaguely felt that we had met before
to-day. It came over me all of a sudden, a short time ago, just who he
is and where we met him.”

“A crook?”

“The worst of crooks,” Nick grimly nodded. “The very man to have devised
such a job as this and to have pulled it off successfully, most likely
with the sanction of Jack Madison. His disguise was perfect, however, or
so nearly that it blinded me for a time. I refer to the rascal who twice
has committed crimes involving Arthur Gordon, and who----”

“Gee whiz!” exclaimed Patsy, interrupting. “I’m on to your curves,
chief. You mean Mortimer Deland.”

“None other,” said Nick.

“By Jove, that alone would clinch the theory you have formed,” said
Chick. “If Deland is in this job, if you really are right----”

“I know I am right,” Nick interposed. “I ought to have instantly
recalled the eyes of that rascal, at least, as I since have done. It is
nearly a year, however, since we last run him down and sent him to
prison, from which he was afterward brought into court on a
habeas-corpus writ and contrived to escape from the two officers in
charge of him.”

“I remember,” Chick nodded. “We decided that he had fled to Europe.”

“That then seemed to be his most likely course,” Nick replied. “It now
is ten to one, however, that he decided to lie low right here, and where
he since has fallen in with Cora Cavendish. He may have learned from her
about the Madison letters, and with her framed up this rascally job.”

“By Jove, that now seems more than probable,” Chick said, with some
enthusiasm. “You are weaving a net with fine meshes, Nick, for fair. No
fish of Deland’s size could slip through it.”

“Not if we can get him into it,” supplemented Patsy.

“We will set about that without more delay,” Nick declared, rising
abruptly. “You slip into a disguise, Patsy, and get after Cora
Cavendish.”

“Leave her to me, chief.”

“Find out where she is and what she is doing, and with what man she has
been chiefly friendly of late. It’s ten to one that the man, in whatever
disguise you find him, will be Mortimer Deland.”

“Shall I arrest him, chief, if sure of his identity?” asked Patsy,
eagerly starting to prepare for his work.

“No, not immediately,” Nick directed. “We want all of his confederates
and positive evidence against them. Watch him, or the woman, until that
can be obtained.”

“I’ve got you, chief.”

“In the meantime, Chick, we will get after Madison and find out with
whom he is having covert relations,” Nick added. “You go to his law
office, Chick, and see what you can learn.”

“Leave him to me, Nick, in case he is there.”

“I will go to his residence, to make doubly sure of finding him, and we
then shall have the ground pretty well covered,” Nick declared, as all
three hastened to the library. “You both may be governed by
circumstances, of course, and we will compare notes between now and
midnight--barring that we accomplish something much more to the purpose.
That’s all. We will get a move on at once.”




CHAPTER VI.

A PIECE OF PLASTER.


It was after four o’clock when Patsy Garvan emerged into Madison Avenue
to begin the work assigned him, starting from home somewhat in advance
of Nick and Chick, and heading immediately for Forty-fourth Street.

“It’s no dead open-and-shut cinch where to find a blackbird as fly as
Cora Cavendish at this hour of the day,” he said to himself. “She may be
taking in a matinée, or the movies, or having a spin with some gink in a
buzz car. I’ll tackle her apartments in the Nordeck, for a starter, and
if I can learn nothing there, or from the office clerk--well, I’ll cross
that bridge when I get to it. I sure have got to find her by some hook
or crook.”

Ten minutes brought Patsy to his destination, an apartment house in
Forty-fourth Street, patronized largely by women of the same social
status as his quarry. He entered the office on the street floor, when,
with a thrill of satisfaction, he beheld the very woman he was seeking.

“Gee, this is going some!” he mentally exclaimed. “There she is, now,
and rigged for the street. I’ll buy a cigar, at least, as a blind for
butting in here.”

Although in disguise and quite sure that the woman did not know him by
sight, even, Patsy reasoned that any unusual incident might arouse her
misgivings, if she really was engaged in the knavery Nick suspected.

Patsy sauntered to a cigar case near the clerk’s desk, therefore, and
made his purchase without another glance at the woman.

Cora Cavendish was emerging from the elevator when Patsy entered. She
was a tall, slender woman close upon thirty, with an abundance of
bleached hair, thin features, a rather pretty face aside from its
paleness, and a certain sinister and crafty expression in her gray eyes.
She was fashionably clad and was drawing on a pair of long, lavender kid
gloves.

Passing within three feet of Patsy, and wafting to his nostrils a
pronounced aroma of heliotrope sachet, she paused for a moment and said
to the clerk, with a quick and somewhat metallic voice:

“If Guy Morton shows up and asks for me, Mr. Hardy, tell him I’ll return
in twenty minutes.”

“All right, Miss Cavendish,” nodded the clerk. “I’ll bear it in mind.”

“I have a date with him,” Cora added. “But he may tire of waiting and
come looking for me.”

“Tire of waiting for you--impossible!” Hardy observed, with a grin.

“Oh, quit your kidding!” retorted the woman, laughing. “You hand him my
message, Hardy, and give him the key to my suite.”

“I’ll do so, Cora.”

“Good for you. Tell him to wait, mind you.”

“No need to tell him that,” Hardy returned, as the woman swept out of
the office.

Patsy already had left the counter after lighting his cigar, and he
passed out only a few yards behind the woman.

“Now, by Jove, if she doesn’t take a taxi, I shall have soft walking,”
he said to himself. “Guy Morton, eh? I never heard of him. When I see
him, if so lucky, I may possibly know his face.”

Patsy’s wish was granted, in that Cora Cavendish did not take a
conveyance. She walked briskly through Forty-fourth Street to Sixth
Avenue, then turned north and increased her pace, gliding with a sort of
sinuous grace through the throng of pedestrians.

“Gee! she’s in some hurry,” thought Patsy, at a discreet distance behind
her. “If she can go to keep a date with the said Morton and return to
her apartments in twenty minutes, she cannot be going very far. To some
other hotel, perhaps, or some saloon with a side door for the fair sex.”

Patsy had hit the nail very nearly on the head. A few minutes later he
saw his quarry enter a popular café in one of the side streets, where
she paused and questioned a man seated at a high desk near the door.

She evidently obtained the information she wanted. For, passing directly
through the place, Cora entered one of the several private dining rooms
in the rear, quickly closing the door.

It was not done so quickly, however, as to prevent Patsy, who had
immediately stepped into the front saloon, from getting a momentary
glimpse of the interior of the private room.

He saw that the lace-draped window was partly open, that a man answering
Nick’s description of Hawley was seated at a damask-covered table, and
that on the latter stood a bottle of wine, partly drank, and two
glasses. He also saw, nevertheless, that there was no other occupant of
the room.

“He’s still waiting for her,” he reasoned. “Waiting for her with an
extra glass. That’s the reporter Nick described, as sure as I’m a foot
high, and probably Deland himself. I’ll mighty soon find out.”

Patsy turned and found the man at the desk eying him suspiciously, and
he took no chance of a subsequent warning being sent to the suspected
couple, but immediately seized the bull by the horns. Stepping close to
the desk, he displayed his detective badge and said quietly, but in a
way he knew would be effective:

“I am in Nick Carter’s employ, and I happen to know that you are the man
who runs this place. If you wish to continue running it, you hand me
straight goods and keep your trap closed. Whom has Cora Cavendish gone
in there to meet?”

The change that came over the man’s face convinced Patsy that he needed
to say nothing more threatening. The mention of Nick Carter’s name had
been enough. The man at once replied, moreover, with lowered voice:

“I’ll not yip; not on your life. She has joined a man named Morton. He’s
been waiting for her.”

“How long?”

“About twenty minutes.”

“What do you know about him?”

“Nothing; not a thing. Both come here now and then to lunch, or to buy
wine. I have known the woman for a time, but not the man.”

“Is either adjoining dining room vacant?”

“Yes, both of them.”

“I’ll go into the one on the right,” said Patsy, with a glance at the
several closed doors. “Call that waiter away, so he’ll not be butting in
there.”

“You mean into your room?”

“That’s what. Let him serve the couple, if they order anything, but you
make sure that he doesn’t put them wise to me, or to anything else, or
your license will go so high in the air you could not see it with the
Lick telescope.”

The proprietor actually turned pale, so impressive was Patsy, and he
muttered quickly:

“You leave it to me. I’ll fix the waiter, all right. Go ahead as soon as
you please.”

“Gee! I’ve got him well muzzled,” thought Patsy, now seeking the
adjoining dining room. “He looks as if I already had put his place on
the blink. He wouldn’t dare say his soul’s his own. Now, by Jove, I must
get in unheard.”

Patsy opened and closed the door noiselessly, entering the room. It was
like that occupied by Cora Cavendish and her companion, but the
plastered wall between the two rooms precluded playing the eavesdropper
in that direction.

Turning to the window, therefore, Patsy began to raise it by slow
degrees until he could lean out cautiously. He then found that the other
window was only four feet away, and through the opening, for it had been
raised several inches for ventilation, he could hear the voices of the
suspected couple.

One object caught his eye, moreover, that alone served to confirm the
theory Nick had formed.

Cora Cavendish had taken a chair, but had drawn it away from the table.
She was seated close to the open window. She had removed her long
lavender gloves and her left arm was rested on the window sill, her
fingers toying with the lace draperies.

Between the filmy curtains Patsy caught sight of her hand and arm, bare
nearly to the elbow.

On the fleshy part of it, directly over one of the blueish veins, was
nearly a square inch of pink court plaster.

“By gracious, that clinches it!” thought Patsy. “The chief is right.
That plaster covers the cut from which some blood was taken. Give us
time, now, and we’ll surely deliver the goods.”

In the meantime, with ears alert, he could hear Cora Cavendish saying a
bit sharply, as if irritated:

“I cannot be in two places at once, can I? Cut out your kicking and get
down to business. I came here as soon as I could after doing the other
job.”

“Well, what’s the result?” demanded her companion curtly. “Did you see
him?”

“Gee! that’s Deland’s voice, all right,” thought Patsy. “He is not
disguising it, now, and there’s no mistaking it.”

“Sure I saw him,” said Cora, still snappishly.

“What did he say?”

“What you’ll not like to hear, Mortie, take it from me.”

“Use my other name, you fool! I’m not looking for a free ride up the
river.”

“None can hear us in this place,” said Cora, less petulantly. “I’ll tell
you what he said, Guy. He called me down in good shape, along with all
the rest of us, over my shoulder. He’s up in the air a mile.”

“He’ll come down,” said Deland, with sinister coldness.

“Don’t be so sure of it.”

“I’ll find a way to bring him down, then.”

“He’s nursing an awful kick.”

“He’ll kick against a brick wall, Cora, in that case,” Deland said, with
an icy assurance that Patsy readily remembered. “I’ll puncture his tires
so quickly that he’ll turn turtle.”

“Well, mebbe so,” allowed the woman doubtfully.

“What more did he say?” Deland continued. “Did you get any part of the
coin?”

“Not a copper of it,” said Cora curtly.

“Why was that?”

“He says that he won’t settle.”

“Won’t settle!”

Patsy heard Deland’s teeth meet with a sudden fierce snap.

“That’s what he said, Guy, and he as good as fired me out of the crib,”
replied Cora inelegantly. “You’ll have to see him yourself if you----”

“See him--you bet I’ll see him,” Deland broke forth in tones that would
have chilled an ordinary hearer. “I’ll see him, all right, and I’ll lose
no time about it.”

“What need of rushing things?”

“Need enough.”

“Why? Won’t it keep?”

“No, hang it, nothing keeps when that infernal sleuth takes up a case,”
Deland snarled viciously. “You don’t yet know what has happened.”

“Sleuth--what sleuth?” Cora’s arm vanished like a flash from Patsy’s
cautious gaze, when she swung round in her chair. “You don’t mean----”

“You ought to guess what I mean, Cora, and whom.”

“Not--not Nick Carter?”

“Yes. May the devil get him--and I’ll help him do so.”

“What has occurred?” Cora demanded, voice quaking.

“Carter began an investigation this morning,” Deland now informed her.
“I was there in disguise to learn who was put on the case and what was
suspected. Phelan, the headquarters man, was the first to show up, and
he played dead easy into our hands.”

“He got after Gordon?”

“He sent a gun to get him, and I now know that Gordon was arrested and
taken down to headquarters, along with the evidence against him.”

“Why are you so stewed, then? That ought to be good enough.”

“So it would be--if it had lasted!” snapped Deland.

“Lasted--what do you mean?”

“I mean that Carter showed up at the house a little later and had a look
at things,” Deland explained. “He didn’t know me from a side of leather,
but he refused to let me in or to put me wise to what he suspected. He
flew down to headquarters, instead, and Gordon was liberated.”

“Is that so?”

“When Carter returned he told the reporters that there had been no
arrest, and that the whole business in so far as Gordon was concerned
was a mistake.”

“That looks mighty bad,” said Cora, after a moment. “How do you size it
up?”

“Hang the cursed dick, Cora, there’s only one way to size it up,” Deland
again replied, with a snarl. “Carter got wise to something, enough to
warrant his taking the chance of liberating Gordon.”

“That’s evident enough.”

“I then decided to bolt. I thought he might light on me next. That’s why
I’m stewed and so hot around the collar,” Deland went on, with bitter
ferocity.

“But this job----”

“The job must be wound up at once,” snapped Deland, again interrupting.
“We must have that promised coin before Carter can get in his work.
Won’t settle, eh? By heavens, I’ll soon see whether he’ll settle. He’ll
settle, all right, or he’ll hear something drop.”

“But----”

“There aren’t any buts to it,” Deland fiercely insisted. “This trick
must be turned and turned at once. Did you leave him at home?”

“Yes, of course.”

“I’ll get after him, then, and bring him down to cases. You move lively,
too, and get next to Flynn. Tell him where I have gone and that I may
need help. Send Plugger out there with Daggett and Tobey. Tell them to
nose round till they find out what’s doing. Come on at once. There’s no
time to lose.”

Patsy Garvan heard the viciously determined rascal push back his chair
from the table with a violence that upset one of the glasses and broke
it. The tinkling of the falling glass easily reached his ears, and in
another moment he heard the couple hurriedly leaving the room.

“Gee! he’s off with blood in his eye, all right,” thought Patsy. “He
must have been talking about Jack Madison, though it’s no dead-sure
thing. I’ll follow him and find out. Plugger Flynn, eh? So he was in the
job, along with Jim Daggett and Buck Tobey, three fine East Side
blacklegs. Thundering guns! I’m on the hind seat of the wagon, but I
don’t believe they can shake me.”

The last arose in his mind when, emerging from the private dining room,
he discovered that Deland and Cora Cavendish already were passing into
the street, in which the daylight of the October afternoon was merging
into dusk.

Seeing that neither of the suspects was looking back, however, Patsy
darted after them and quickly reached the street.

Deland was springing into a taxicab, and in another moment he was riding
rapidly away, so rapidly that pursuit was out of the question.

Cora Cavendish paused briefly on the curbing to watch the swiftly
departing car, and then she turned abruptly and hurried away.

“Hang it! I’ve lost him temporarily, at least, do what I might,” Patsy
muttered. “There’s nothing to it, now. I have only one string to my bow.
I will follow the woman.”




CHAPTER VII.

A BLOW FROM BEHIND.


Nick Carter did not hurry to arrive at the suburban residence of Mr.
John Madison. He hardly expected, in fact, to find him at home before
early evening; but he wanted to see him when he did arrive.

It was close upon six o’clock when Nick entered a gate leading into the
extensive side grounds, and dusk then had deepened into darkness.

Only a single light was to be seen in the imposing wooden dwelling, and
that shone out faintly through the glass walls of a large conservatory
attached to the house. It came from a window beyond the projecting
hothouse.

“That don’t look as if many of the family are at home,” thought Nick,
stepping lightly over the gravel walk that wound between the trees of a
park and led to a side door of the house.

“It may be that only his wife and children are here, though servants are
essential to--humph!” Nick abruptly digressed. “It is barely possible
that he has sent them away, servants and all, if he really is engaged in
the knavery I suspect. Discretion certainly would impel some such step.”

Nick turned the corner of the conservatory, then saw a brighter beam of
light from under the lowered shade of a library window. He crept near
enough to peer into the room.

There was only one occupant--the man the detective was seeking.

Mr. John Madison was seated at a flat, cloth-topped desk in the middle
of the spacious room. It was covered with pamphlets, documents, and
writing materials. A tall library lamp with a pale-green silk shade
stood near by. Its rays lent an unnatural hue to the man’s face, a sort
of ghastly, greenish pallor seen neither in life nor death.

He was a powerful, imposing man, with broad shoulders and a large head.
He was smoothly shaved, with strong, aggressive features, a square jaw,
and thin lips, heavy brows, and a mop of black hair.

He sat gazing intently at the top of his desk, but Nick saw at a glance
that his mind was elsewhere. His thin lips were drawn. His heavy brows
hung like frowning battlements over his vacant eyes. His large hands
were gripping the arms of his chair.

Nick moved on quietly to the side door and touched the electric bell.

It was not answered for several moments. Then a heavy tread could be
heard in the side hall.

“No servant ever treads like that,” thought Nick. “He could not hold his
job.”

The door was opened by Mr. Madison himself. He turned a switch key in
the near casing, and a flood of light filled the side hall and fell on
the figure and face of his visitor.

Madison recoiled slightly, then instantly caught himself.

“Why, good evening, Mr. Carter,” said he, with his sonorous voice only a
bit unsteady on the first two words.

“Good evening, Mr. Madison.”

“This is a surprise. Walk in,” said the lawyer. “I am glad to see you.”

Nick entered, smiling and shaking the other’s extended hand. It felt
cold and clammy in that of the detective.

“I came out this way on business, Mr. Madison, so I dropped in only for
a short call,” Nick observed. “I want to discuss the approaching
election with you, or one feature of it.”

“Ah! Is that so?”

“I hardly expected, nevertheless, to find you at this hour,” Nick added.

“I have not been in town to-day,” Madison replied deliberately.

“No?”

“I have not been feeling well. My wife and children are visiting in
Boston for a few days, and I have given the servants a like holiday.
Come into the library. Sit down and help yourself. There are matches in
the tray.”

Madison placed a box of cigars on the desk while speaking, then resumed
the swivel chair, from which he had arisen to admit his visitor.

Nick had removed his hat and overcoat and left them in the side hall. He
took a chair directly opposite the burly politician. He had, apparently,
no aggressive intentions.

The aroma of pinks and heliotrope was wafted from an alcove near by,
from which a door led into the conservatory. The door was open a few
inches, admitting the scent of the flowers.

“You are not seriously ill, I hope,” Nick remarked, while he accepted a
cigar and lit it.

“Oh, no!” Madison shook his head and ran his fingers through his hair.
“It’s a touch of bronchitis, brought on by too much speaking in
political rallies. That raises the deuce with one’s throat. A day or two
of rest will restore me.”

“I hope so,” said Nick.

“You said, I think, that you wish to discuss some feature of the present
campaign. To what did you refer?”

Nick dropped his burned match into a cuspidor.

“To the hard fight you and Gordon are making to carry your congressional
district,” he remarked, hooking his thumbs through the armholes of his
vest and blowing a wreath of smoke toward the ceiling.

“It is a hard fight, Carter, no mistake.”

“Do you expect to win out?”

“I hope to, of course.”

“You will leave no stone unturned, I suppose?”

“No stone that can be legitimately turned. I shall disturb no other.”

“That goes without saying.”

“But why your interest in the fight?” Madison asked deliberately, in
subdued yet sonorous tones. “I was not aware that you ever dipped into
politics beyond casting your vote.”

“Well, not often,” Nick admitted. “Occasionally, however, I make a play
in politics. This happens to be one of the occasions.”

There was an indescribably ominous intensity in the steady gaze with
which the eyes of these two men were fixed upon each other. Not for an
instant did either deviate or waver.

Not for a moment, moreover, was the surrounding silence broken by any
sound save their voices. Yet not once had either been raised above an
ordinary pitch, or tinctured any betrayal of their true feelings.
Invariable suavity and politeness, rather, seemed to imbue them.

“Why this occasion, Mr. Carter?” Madison questioned. “Why your interest
in this particular fight?”

“Because of what befell your opponent this morning,” said Nick.

“Befell Mr. Gordon?”

“Yes.”

“What was that?”

“He was arrested on suspicion of having murdered a woman last night in a
Columbus Avenue flat,” said Nick.

Madison heard him without a change of countenance.

“Gordon arrested on such a charge as that? Is it possible?” he replied.

“It is more than possible. It is a fact.”

“I have not seen to-day’s papers,” Madison said indifferently.

“There is no report of it in the papers.”

“No?”

“None whatever.”

“Why is that?”

“Because I prevented it, Madison, and had Gordon liberated,” said Nick.
“I knew publicity might ruin his chances of election.”

“You are a Gordon man, then.”

Madison now spoke with a covert sneer.

“Well, yes, to be perfectly frank with you,” bowed Nick. “So I
suppressed the newspaper stories, and had Gordon liberated and the
accusation killed. That is the little political play I have made. Aside
from that, however, I had other reasons for making it.”

“What reasons, Carter?”

“I do not believe Gordon committed the crime,” said Nick. “I have, in
fact, found positive proof that he did not.”

“Indeed? Someone, then, must have blundered.”

The last vestige of color now had left Madison’s face. His strong
features were taking on the haggard look of a long illness. Not once did
his intense eyes leave those of the detective, however, or his powerful
figure relax from its rigid attitude of strained attention.

“Yes, some one blundered,” Nick agreed, bowing again. “The blunder is
going to prove costly, too, to the persons involved. The victim of the
murder, Madison, was a woman named Matilda Lancey.”

“Indeed?” Madison’s face hardened perceptibly. “I was acquainted with
her. We used to be friendly in a way.”

“Used to?”

“That is what I said. I have not had her to lunch, or in any other way
associated with her, for months.”

“Your friendship with her ended, I infer.”

“Yes. That’s about the size of it.”

“Has she approached you in any designing way since the termination of
your friendliness?”

“How designing?” Madison demanded, brows drooping. “What do you mean,
Carter?”

“I mean with threats of blackmail, or anything of that kind.”

“I don’t recall that she has.”

“You would be likely to remember it, wouldn’t you?”

“Certainly,” Madison bluntly admitted. “But there is nothing in that.
How could she blackmail me?”

“By threatening to publish your compromising letters, Mr. Madison,
which you employed crooks to steal from her, and which last night was
accomplished, resulting in her death at their hands,” Nick now said more
sternly.

Madison’s teeth met with a snap. He lurched forward in his chair, eyes
blazing, and banged his fist upon the desk.

“See here, Carter!” he cried, with a volcanic outbreak of rage. “If you
have come here to insult me, or----”

“Oh, don’t get excited,” Nick interrupted, checking him with a quick,
commanding gesture. “There is nothing in that, Madison, and you ought to
know it. I will tell you with very few words why I have come here. Hear
them like a man, not turn bull in a china shop. You know that neither
bluster nor bluff have any effect upon me.”

Madison straightened up again and governed his resentment, though it
still glowed in his eyes and caused a vicious twitching of his thin
lips.

“Out with it, then,” he said harshly. “Why are you here, Carter? What do
you want?”

“The truth,” said Nick shortly.

“About what?”

“The murder of Tilly Lancey.”

“I know nothing about it.”

“And I know, Madison, that that is a falsehood,” Nick said sternly. “I
know that she was killed by persons employed by you to commit that
crime, or to recover the letters you have written to her. I know who the
culprits are, some of them, and within six hours I will have them behind
prison bars. One is Cora Cavendish, a disreputable friend of the
murdered woman. Another is Mortimer Deland, a notorious English crook. I
know so much, Madison, in fact, that unless you confess the whole truth
here and now, I will railroad you to the Tombs for safe-keeping
until----”

“Stop--stop! You have said enough,” Madison interrupted, with a groan.
“I will tell you, Carter, I will confess the whole truth. I am in wrong,
horribly wrong, but I will tell you all. I will----”

An oath interrupted him--an oath and a blow.

Both came from a man who had stealthily approached the house, peered in
through the window, stolen in through the open conservatory, all so
noiselessly that he had reached the alcove unheard--and from which he
leaped, and, with a single bound, reached the unsuspecting detective.

A blackjack in his uplifted hand fell like a flash, fell squarely on the
detective’s head, meeting it with a single sickening thud.

And Nick Carter pitched forward and rolled out of his chair, crashing to
the floor, as dead to the world as if he had been felled by a
thunderbolt.

His assailant was Mortimer Deland.




CHAPTER VIII.

DRIVEN TO THE WALL.


John Madison had sprung to his feet, uttering a cry, vainly attempting
to prevent the lightninglike assault. But it had been made so quickly
and with such vicious determination that Nick himself had received not
the slightest warning of the terrible blow.

“Good heavens! What have you done? You have killed him!” gasped Madison,
when the detective fell insensible to the floor.

Deland turned on him like a flash, with features distorted and murder
in his eyes. He whipped out a revolver and thrust its muzzle against the
lawyer’s burly form.

“Sit down!” he cried, with a wolfish snarl. “Sit down, or I’ll send you
after him. I’m here for business, and you’ll find I mean it.”

Madison shrank instinctively from the deadly weapon, sinking back on his
chair, as ghastly with fear and dismay as if the hand of death already
had been laid upon him.

“Sit quiet, now,” snarled Deland, still with terrible ferocity. “If you
stir, hang you, I’ll send a bullet into you.”

Madison’s only reply was a hopeless groan.

Deland placed his revolver on the chair from which the detective had
fallen, face down on the floor, with one arm crooked under his battered
head.

Crouching beside him, with one eye constantly on the lawyer, Deland drew
up Nick’s coat and got his revolver, thrusting it into his own pocket.
Then, fishing out the detective’s handcuffs, he drew Nick’s arms behind
him and locked the iron around his wrists.

All was accomplished in a very few seconds, and with the brutal energy
and determination of one ready to meet opposition with instant
bloodshed.

Rising, Deland then dragged Nick a few feet from the desk, to which he
then turned, seizing his revolver and taking the chair from which the
detective had fallen.

“Killed him, eh?” he now snarled coldly, fixing his glittering eyes on
the ghastly face of the lawyer. “It will be a good thing for you, for
both of us, if I have killed him. That’s the only look in we’ve got. If
I haven’t done it, blast him, I’ll do it later.”

Madison pulled himself together with an effort and straightened up in
his chair. He already knew how lawless and desperate a knave confronted
him, but his first flush of fear had subsided.

“Don’t talk of killing, Deland,” he hoarsely protested. “There has been
killing enough--more than enough, God knows!”

“And God knows, too, that more may be necessary,” Deland returned, with
icy austerity.

“Why do you say that? Why necessary?”

“For your own safety and mine,” declared Deland, with merciless
severity. “That’s a clever question to come from you, Madison, after
hearing the accusations of this infernal dick.”

“But----”

“Oh, I know what he has been saying and why he said it. I have been
listening outside of the window and in the conservatory. Luckily the
outer door was unlocked and that in the alcove open, so that I could get
in noiselessly. But for that, Madison, it might have been all over but
the shouting--all over for you but paying the price!”

“I shall pay no price for crimes which you----”

“Stop right there!” snapped Deland, jerking his chair nearer the table.
“You will pay what I dictate for what has been done.”

Madison recoiled involuntarily from the fierce, threatening eyes of the
vicious rascal.

“What you dictate----”

“What I dictate--yes!” Deland cut in sternly. “I heard what you finally
said to this cursed dick. He had you driven to the wall. You were ready
to throw up your hands, to squeal on your pals, to confess the whole
business. Do you think I would stand for that? Not much, Madison, not
much!”

“But he knows----”

“I don’t care what he knows. We must prevent him from making use of it.”

“Impossible.”

“Wait and see! Twice this cursed Carter has foiled my cleverly laid
plans, and twice he has sent me to prison. There shall be no third
time--not on your life! I’ve got it in for him good and hard. I will
send him to the devil on greased rollers. I will send you with him,
Madison, if you balk against my demands.”

“You are quite capable of it, Deland.”

“You’ll find I am.”

“What are your demands?” Madison now asked with a growl, apprehending no
immediate violence. “What do you mean by that?”

“You know what I mean.”

“On the contrary----”

“You’ll put over no lawyer’s trick on me,” Deland again interrupted.
“Cora Cavendish has been out here, hasn’t she?”

“Yes. She was here two hours ago.”

“Why do you question me, then? She told you what I want.”

“You mean, Deland, that she delivered your message?”

“What’s the difference? I sent her out here to get the first installment
you promised us.”

“So she said.”

“The situation now has changed, so changed for the worse that I now want
all that you promised us,” Deland added, with sinister vehemence. “I not
only want it, Madison, but I’m going to have it.”

“No, Deland, you are not,” said Madison, with more firmness than he yet
had displayed.

“What’s that?”

Deland’s jaws closed with an audible snap.

“You heard what I said.”

There was a moment or two of silence.

Deland appeared briefly staggered by the altered attitude of the lawyer.

He was not alone, moreover, in hearing that last semi-defiant remark.

Nick Carter was reviving. Inured to hard knocks, his head had sustained
much better than either of his companions suspected the blow it had
received.

Nick heard the remark, however, much as one hears in a dream, or the
voice of one at a distance. It began to bring him to himself,
nevertheless, and with slowly returning consciousness a realization of
his position and of what had occurred.

With these came, too, a more keen appreciation of the entire situation,
and the cobwebs then cleared from his brain more rapidly. A definite
thought had leaped up in his mind, quickly followed by another and
another.

“By Jove, I was knocked out. Madison has another visitor. One of his
confederates, one of the gang of crooks, showed up here. It is to him he
is talking.”

Nick had not stirred--did not stir.

“I’ll wait for more,” was the thought that followed. “I will hear what
is said. It may be Deland himself. I can rely upon Chick and Patsy.”

Stretched prostrate on the floor a few feet from the desk, with his face
upturned in the full rays from the lamp, Nick had not ventured to lift
so much as a corner of an eyelid, lest the movement of it might be seen
and rightly interpreted. He continued motionless and silent, as if still
dead to the world, and in another moment the familiar voice of Deland
fell upon his ears and convinced him of his assailant’s identity.

“Yes, I heard what you said, Madison,” he replied, with sudden ominous
coldness. “I heard what you said--but you do not mean it.”

“On the contrary, Deland, I do mean it,” declared the lawyer, more
forcibly.

“That you will not settle with me and my pals for what we have done?”

“That is precisely what I mean.”

“By Heaven, then, you shall pay the price in another way!” cried Deland,
with renewed ferocity. “You shall meet the fate which--ha! they are
here, now. We will see--we will see!”

“You’ll not be alone in seeing,” thought Nick, now comparatively himself
again.

A low, peculiar whistle had come from within the conservatory. It
brought Deland to his feet on the instant, turning quickly toward the
alcove through which he had entered.

Three men now emerged from it, following close on the heels of one
another. Though all were well dressed, all were of dark and sinister
aspect, with faces that wore the unmistakable stamp of the crook.

Nick seized this opportunity for a momentary glance at them, and he
instantly recognized all three as East Side gangsters, as Patsy Garvan
had identified them by the names he had heard mentioned by Deland.

“Holy smoke!” exclaimed the foremost, with a glance at the motionless
form of the detective. “Is the world coming to an end? How did you get
the big dick, Mortie?”

“Plugger Flynn, as bad an egg as was ever laid,” thought Nick.

“I had to get him, Plugger, and get him good,” said Deland, more coolly.
“He had Madison on the run.”

“He did, eh?” Flynn glared at the lawyer. “Not going to squeal, was he?”

“That’s what.”

“Hang him, then. I’ll close his trap so he can’t squeal, as sure as----”

“You keep your gun in your pocket, Daggett,” snapped Deland, when he saw
the other reaching for a revolver. “There’ll be time enough for that, if
it comes to that kind of a play. But we’ve got him so he’ll not squeal,
and where he’ll be glad to settle. You’ve arrived just in time.”

“We hiked out here on the run after seeing Cora,” nodded Flynn.

“She told you----”

“The whole business, Mortie,” put in a slender, crafty-looking rascal
known as Buck Tobey, chiefly because of his passion for bucking a faro
game. “But how did the dick get wise to so much?”

“Don’t ask me,” said Deland. “How in thunder do I know?”

“Does he know about the red liquor? Does he know it came from the skirt,
and that I was the one that sprinkled it on the banker? If he does, by
thunder, and that you three ginks croaked----”

“Shut up!” snapped Deland. “It now makes no difference what he knows.
We’ll fix him so he can make no use of it.”

“That’s got to be done,” Plugger Flynn declared, with a growl.

“And the sooner it’s done, Mortie, the better,” added Daggett, glaring
down at the detective. “It’ll be a good job to wipe out this dick. If
the rest of his push know too much, we’ll croak them, also.”

“There’ll be time enough for all that,” said Deland, with characteristic
assurance. “I first will finish with this infernal squealer and find out
where he stands.”

“He’ll settle, by thunder, or we’ll stand him on his head,” snarled
Daggett, jerking a chair toward the desk and sitting down. “Get after
him, Deland. You’ve been doing the talking.”




CHAPTER IX.

THE CLOSED DOOR.


Nick Carter needed to hear no more than the significant remarks already
made, nor really needed to have heard them, in fact, to convince him
that his earlier suspicions and deductions, as well as the theory he had
formed concerning the terrible crime were almost absolutely correct.

Nick now felt reasonably sure, too, since learning that Cora Cavendish
had sent the three crooks out there, that Patsy must have got on her
track before that was done, and he was borrowing no trouble as to the
outcome of his own situation.

The only point that Nick now wanted to clear up, in fact, was the
precise relations that had existed between Madison and this gang of
thugs, and he knew that he was in a fair way of doing so.

John Madison had not stirred from the swivel chair in which he was
seated. Nor had he spoken, or even changed countenance, during the
vicious remarks that had passed between the several crooks. He really
appeared indifferent to them, and he now wore the grimly determined
aspect of a man who had made up his mind what to do, and had the nerve,
and stamina to do it.

Deland was quick to observe all this, and his evil eyes had an uglier
gleam when he resumed his seat at the desk to continue his talk with the
lawyer, while Daggett, Flynn, and Tobey occupied chairs near by.

“Now, Madison, let’s get right down to cases,” Deland began, whipping
out each word with ominous asperity. “I’ll say what I mean and you do
the same. You are up against one of two things. You’re going to settle
with us, as you agreed to do, or you’re going to be sent up for the
murder of Tilly Lancey. There’s no middle course for you.”

“H’m, I see,” thought Nick, already sizing up the situation. “No middle
course for him, eh? I’ll lay one out for him, then, unless I’m much
mistaken.”

Madison did not reply for a moment. He drew up his powerful figure a
little higher in his chair, and bestowed a frowning glance upon each of
the rascals confronting him. His gaze finally settled upon Deland’s evil
face, however, and remained there.

“I will be sent up for the murder of Tilly Lancey, will I?” he slowly
answered.

“That’s what you will,” Deland nodded. “That’s one course.”

“How can I be sent up for a crime that you scoundrels committed?”

“We’ll swear it onto you, and we have the stuff to fix it so it will
stay. I’ve got the bunch of letters you wrote to her. We’ll chuck them
in for evidence. We’ll frame you up, all right, and in a way that will
let us down dead easy. You can bank on that.”

“And bank on it good and strong, too,” put in Plugger Flynn, pounding
the desk top with his fingers.

“You fellows are a fine gang with which to do business,” said Madison,
with manifest contempt in his deep voice. “Either one of you would
double cross his own mother. I ought to have known it in the beginning,
but I was caught by the bait you threw me. The only other course is for
me to settle, you say?”

“You heard what I said,” snapped Deland.

“I’ll have my say, now, for a moment,” Madison returned. “You approached
me a week ago, Deland, with a proposition that in a way appealed to me.
You said you could get from Tilly Lancey a number of letters with which
she has threatened me, and also that you could do it in such a way as to
have it publicly appear that my political opponent, Arthur Gordon, had
been trying to buy them and was secretly an intimate friend of that
woman.”

“Well, come to the point,” said Deland. “We admit all that.”

“Good enough,” thought Nick, calmly taking it all in. “That admission
will cost you something, Deland, and may save him. I’ll wait and see
which way the cat jumps.”

“I apprehended defeat in the coming election,” Madison went on
deliberately. “For that reason, only, your proposition appealed to me. I
foresaw that I could, with those letters restored to me and Gordon in a
measure defamed, easily carry the election. I asked you what you would
accept for doing the job?

“And you agreed to pay it, ten thousand dollars, and told us to go
ahead,” said Deland.

“True,” Madison darkly nodded. “But I did not agree to bloodshed. You
did not tell me that a murder was to be committed. You did not even hint
that Tilly Lancey’s life was to be taken. Not for a moment, you
double-dyed knave, would I have considered that hideous proposition. You
said----”

“Never mind what we said,” Deland cut in sharply. “We know what we said
and to what you agreed. We have our own way of doing things, and we have
delivered the goods. It now is up to you to settle. We have put Gordon
in wrong. I have your letters in my pocket. You’re going to settle, too,
or----”

“Stop right there, Deland,” Madison interrupted, leaning forward to bang
the desk with his fist. “There will be no settlement between you fellows
and me. As I told Cora Cavendish two hours ago, you will not get a
copper from me.”

“We won’t, eh?”

Deland’s hand went to his hip pocket.

“Not one copper!” Madison thundered. “You say I have only one of two
courses. I say, however, that I have a third course, and that’s the
course I will take. There is only one way for me to settle this infamous
business, and that was shown me by this man on the floor. I will confess
the truth, take my medicine for what I have done, and accomplish one
other thing--that of sending you miscreants to the fate you deserve!
That’s the way I’ll settle with you--and the only way!”

It would be hard to say what might have followed, but for one startling
and utterly unexpected incident.

Nick Carter sat straight up on the floor and shouted:

“Good for you, Madison! Stick to that and I’ll pull you out! Against any
man but Gordon--I’d give you my vote!”

Nick had more than one reason for this sudden outbreak. From where he
was lying on the floor, he could see through the alcove and into the
dimly lighted conservatory.

He could see Chick Carter and Patsy Garvan crouching there, each with
revolvers drawn.

Their timely arrival was not due to anything extraordinary. Patsy had
trailed Cora Cavendish to an East Side saloon, and had seen her meet
Flynn and give him Deland’s instructions. Patsy then had followed Flynn,
and later Daggett and Tobey, learning positively in the meantime that
they were to join Deland in Madison’s residence. Seizing an opportunity
to telephone home, also, Patsy found that Chick had returned, and quick
arrangements were made to meet on the Madison place. They had done so
just in time to see the three crooks enter the conservatory--whither
they soon stealthily followed them.

Before Nick’s ringing words were fairly uttered, Deland and the three
gangsters were on their feet and reaching for their weapons.

“That door!” snapped Deland, pointing to the alcove. “Close and lock it,
Daggett. Pull down that curtain, Tobey, down to the sill. Not settle,
eh? We’ll settle the hash of both, then, before----”

“You’re already too late!” Nick shouted.

He would have added a word or two, but they would have been lost in the
tumult that then began.

Both Flynn and Daggett had started into the alcove to obey Deland’s
instructions, and each had been met with a crashing blow from Chick and
Patsy, dealt with precision and violence that sent both of them headlong
to the floor.

Before either could rise, both detectives were in the room and had them
covered, while a third revolver caused Tobey to turn from the window and
throw up his hands.

Deland had been the first to realize the actual situation, and like a
flash he had darted toward the hall.

Chick saw him as the rascal passed through the door.

“After him, Patsy!” he yelled, with a directing glance. “I can handle
these three.”

Patsy turned and darted into the hall.

As he came through the doorway, the crash of Deland’s revolver drowned
all other sounds.

The bullet splintered the door casing over Patsy’s head.

Bang!

Another ball whizzed by Patsy’s head.

The hall was only dimly lighted by the rays that came from the lamp in
the side hall, and for an instant Patsy could not see his quarry. The
flash from his revolver on the second shot revealed him.

Deland was darting up the main stairway, not daring to wait to open a
door, and evidently bent upon reaching the veranda roof and thence
making his escape.

Patsy now saw him plainly, and that he again was about to fire, and he
dropped like a flash to his knees. He was not quite quick enough,
however.

Bang! went the weapon, and the bullet tore through the flesh on Patsy’s
left shoulder.

He felt the sting and the gush of hot blood. He was up on the instant,
revolver leveled, and was pumping lead up the stairway with the rapidity
of a gatling gun.

The report of the weapon was mingled with another sound--the crash of a
body at Patsy’s feet.

Deland had pitched sideways over the baluster rail--with four bullets in
his breast. He was stone dead before he struck the hall floor.

Patsy Garvan had closed the eternal door on the most vicious crook then
at large.

All that remains to be told of the strange and stirring case may be told
with few and simple words. The three crooks, and subsequently Cora
Cavendish, were arrested, and later received life sentences for
complicity in the murder of Tilly Lancey. They made no fight against the
evidence Nick Carter had obtained.

It also appeared that the crime had been framed up by Cora and Deland,
as Nick had suspected, and that not only they, but also Flynn and
Daggett were in the flat when Gordon visited the woman. Nick’s
suspicions and deductions had, in fact, been correct from the start.

John Madison confessed his part in the affair to the court, and Nick’s
intervention in his behalf resulted in his discharge from custody. He
was ignominiously defeated in the election, however, and he moved West
with his family the following month.

Arthur Gordon was elected with flying colors, and--well, it would be
vain to attempt to describe his gratitude for Nick Carter and his
assistants. There are sentiments that language cannot express.

Mortimer Deland was buried, his true name and history with him, save his
criminal history, on the day after he was shot.


THE END.

“A Human Counterfeit; or, Nick Carter and the Crook’s Double,” will be
the title of the long, complete story you will find in the next issue,
No. 157, of the NICK CARTER STORIES, out September 11th. There is an
unusually baffling mystery in this story that requires all of the
cleverness of the great detective to solve. You will also find the usual
installment of the serial now running, together with several other
interesting articles.




THE DULL BOY SCORED.


“Now, my sharp lads!” exclaimed the schoolmaster, “answer me this little
riddle and there’s a holiday for the one who does it: Supposing a gentle
little donkey was tied to a tree with a rope eight yards long, and a
truss of hay was inviting his appetite at a distance of nine yards, how
could he get at it without breaking or gnawing the rope?”

The hay, the donkey, and the difficulty were mentally seen, but not the
answer to the ancient conundrum.

“All give it up?” asked the master.

“Yes, sir,” was answered in a chorus of disappointment.

Then the schoolmaster, naturally, exclaimed:

“So did the other little donkey, my lads.”

“Please, sir, the other day you said I was a dull boy, but may I
answer?” asked a very little fellow, with a sly look.

“Certainly, Arthur; but you must be quick,” decided the man of
knowledge.

“Well, then, sir,” the juvenile declared, “when he’d gone eight yards,
he’d be sure to reach the hay by keeping on four feet, and he’d have a
foot over as well as his nose.”

Then the master bent over his desk without a leg to stand on.




SNAPSHOT ARTILLERY.

By BERTRAM LEBHAR.

(This interesting story was commenced in No. 153 of NICK CARTER STORIES.
Back numbers can always be obtained from your news dealer or the
publishers.)




CHAPTER XII.

THE FRAME-UP.


During the two hours in which Hawley had been confined in a cell at
police headquarters, waiting to be taken to court, Gale had suggested to
Chief of Police Hodgins that it would be a good plan to take the
prisoner’s camera to a professional photographer and have the film
developed so as to make the case against the Camera Chap as complete as
possible.

The chief had agreed that this would be a wise precaution. He had a
friend who ran a portrait studio a few doors from police headquarters,
and he and Gale proceeded to this place.

Without the slightest suspicion as to its contents, they handed Hawley’s
camera to the photographer and accompanied him into his dark room so as
to be able to swear conscientiously in court, later on, that they had
been present when the film was taken out and developed, and could
positively identify it.

Great was their astonishment when the camera was opened and out popped a
jack-in-the-box, with its fingers derisively extending from its nose.

In addition to the cheap film camera--the one which Chief Hodgins now
held as evidence--the Camera Chap had also purchased a toy which is to
be found in every toy shop in the world.

This article comes in all sizes. The jack-in-the-box which Hawley
selected was small, and fitted snugly inside the cheap film camera after
the roll of film had been removed.

Before leaving the store, Hawley had taken out his pocketknife and
removed the lid of the jack-in-the-box. Then he stuffed the rest of the
toy inside the camera, compressing the spring so that when the little
trapdoor in the camera was opened Jack would immediately pop out in a
startling manner.

By the light of the photographer’s ruby lamp, Hodgins and Gale exchanged
glances of blank dismay.

For a few moments the chief’s emotion was so profound that he was quite
incapable of speech. He stood scowling at the papier-mâché figure, and
from his throat came strange noises as though he were about to have a
fit.

“It looks as if we’ve been handed a nice, juicy lemon,” exclaimed Gale,
with a grim laugh. “There’s no film there, of course.”

“Not a bit of film,” replied the photographer to whom this question was
addressed. “This funny little jumping jack occupies all the space where
the film roll should go.”

Gale turned regretfully to Hodgins. “Guess we don’t get Hawley this
time, chief. I understand now why that stiff was so amused over his
arrest. He didn’t expect that we’d open the camera before we got to
court, and he figured on making us look like a couple of fools there.”

What Chief Hodgins said in response cannot be printed here. He had
recovered his power of speech by this time, and proceeded to make good
use--or, rather, bad use--of it.

“Well, at all events,” said Gale soothingly, “you’re lucky to have
discovered this miserable trick here and now, instead of later on in
court. You have at least saved your dignity, chief.”

“Dignity my eye!” growled Hodgins, refusing to find any comfort in this
reflection. “I wanted that impudent loafer in jail--I’d almost give my
right hand to be able to put him there--and this is a terrible
disappointment. Honest, young feller, it’s enough to make a man feel
discouraged.”

Then it was that Gale had an inspiration. Taking Hawley’s camera from
the table, he hurried out of the studio, signaling to Hodgins to follow
him.

When they reached the sidewalk, Gale explained his plan, and the chief
slapped him on the back approvingly.

“You’re all right, young feller,” he declared warmly. “I see you’ve got
nerve as well as brains. Under ordinary circumstances, of course, I
don’t approve of frame-ups. Honesty’s the best policy--that’s my motto.
But these ain’t ordinary circumstances. That’ darned Camera Chap is a
menace to society. It would be a real calamity to have him at large.
Consequently it is my duty to the public to keep him behind bars; and
when duty calls upon Bill Hodgins, he don’t stop at nothin’. So go
ahead, young feller, and carry out this idea of yours.”

Gale’s plan, it is perhaps unnecessary to explain, was to manufacture
the evidence necessary to convict the Camera Chap. With this object in
view, he visited a dealer in photographic supplies and had Hawley’s
camera loaded with film.

Then he proceeded to the city hall and took a snapshot of that edifice,
taking care to stand in exactly the same spot which the Camera Chap had
occupied.

When the film was developed, Hodgins and Gale had taken their prisoner
to court, both of them highly elated by the thought of the surprise they
were going to spring on Hawley.

As soon as the film was offered in evidence, the Camera Chap guessed at
once what had been done; but he realized that it would be futile to try
to make the judge believe that he was the victim of a frame-up. He
foresaw that his story would be received with derision, and he looked
upon himself as lost.

Judge Wall glanced at the negative which Hodgins had handed to him, and
smiled approvingly at that official.

“I must compliment you, chief, upon the thoroughness with which you have
prepared this case,” he said. “The evidence which you have offered
leaves no possible doubt in the court’s mind as to the guilt of the
defendant.”

Then his face grew stern as he turned to the Camera Chap. In his most
impressive tone he proceeded to deliver a little speech to that young
man. His honor greatly prided himself upon his ability as an orator, and
he had no intention of missing this rare opportunity to display
eloquence before an audience which included the mayor and several of
the prominent officials of the city government. Besides, he saw two
reporters--one from the _Chronicle_ and one from the _Bulletin_--busily
making notes, and he realized that his words were about to be handed
down to posterity.

“The city of Oldham,” he began, “has good cause to congratulate itself
upon the wisdom of its city fathers--as that body of public-spirited men
who comprise the city council has been affectionately nicknamed. Never
has that wisdom been more strikingly manifested than by the framing of
the recent ordinance regulating the use of cameras upon our public
highways and within our public buildings.”

The magistrate paused long enough to enable the reporters to catch up
with him. Then he went on:

“Like the sword, the revolver, and other deadly weapons, the camera is
an instrument of both good and evil. In the hands of decent men it is a
blessing to humanity. In the hands of the vicious it is a menace to
society.”

As the magistrate uttered these words, Chief Hodgins was so stirred that
he clapped his hands applaudingly, and had to be reminded by his honor
that such conduct was unseemly in a courtroom.

“It is possible that the city of Oldham--always progressive--is the
first city in the United States to enact legislation controlling the use
of the camera,” the magistrate continued. “But it can safely be
predicted that other cities will soon follow our example. They will
realize that if it is proper to require licenses for dogs, firearms,
automobiles, and alcohol, there is every reason why cameras should be
licensed, too. For the camera is quite as dangerous as a revolver or a
mad dog--when it is used by such reckless rascals as the prisoner at the
bar.”

Once more Chief Hodgins started to applaud, but managed to control
himself just in time to escape another reprimand.

“Your guilt has been fully established,” said his honor to the Camera
Chap. “You are the first offender to be brought up for trial under the
new law, and I am going to make an example of you. I am going to give
you the maximum penalty, to serve as a warning to others of your ilk.”

The magistrate was just about to pass sentence, when the mayor, in a
whisper, reminded him that he had not yet given the prisoner a chance to
say anything in his defense. The mayor had no desire to befriend the
Camera Chap, but he wished the proceedings to be quite regular.

Somewhat crestfallen at his blunder, Judge Wall turned to Hawley with a
scowl.

“Is there anything you wish to say before I pass sentence, young man?”
he snapped.

Hawley felt so sure that it would be useless for him to declare that the
evidence against him had been manufactured, that he was about to shake
his head in negation, when it occurred to him to ask to be allowed to
examine the film negative which his honor still held in his hand.

Although the chance was slim, he was in hopes that he might be able to
detect something on this exhibit which would enable him to prove that he
had not taken the snapshot.

The court had no objection to the defendant’s examining the negative,
and the strip of film was handed to the Camera Chap.

As he held it up to the light and scrutinized it intently, the gaze of
Gale and Chief Hodgins was fixed searching upon his face. It was rather
an anxious moment for them.

But sneers curled their lips as they observed the baffled expression
which came to Hawley’s countenance. It was quite evident that he had
found nothing which would enable him to prove that he was the victim of
a frame-up.

The Camera Chap was just about to hand back the film to the court
officer and prepare to take his medicine, when suddenly Hodgins and Gale
saw him start violently. Then once more he held the negative up to the
light, and, with sudden apprehension, they observed the grim look on his
face give way to a broad grin.

“Your honor,” the Camera Chap cried excitedly, “you ask if I have
anything to say before you pass sentence upon me. I have a few words to
say now. I wish to point out to your honor that it was two p. m. when I
was placed under arrest, and a quarter past two when I arrived at police
headquarters and was locked in a cell. The police blotter will prove
that.”

“The chief of police has testified as to the time of your arrest,” said
the magistrate testily. “It was two p. m., as you say. But what has that
to do with the case? I don’t see the significance of that fact.”

The Camera Chap’s grin broadened. “I think your honor will see the
significance when I point out that this photograph was taken at three p.
m., and, consequently, could not have been taken by me.”

“What nonsense is this?” his honor snapped. “It will do you no good to
trifle with the court, young man.”

“I am not trifling with the court,” Hawley replied. “There can’t be any
question about the time this snapshot was taken, your honor. If you will
hold the negative up to the light, as I have done, you will see plainly
that the hands of the clock in the tower of the city hall are pointing
to three o’clock. Evidently the gentlemen responsible for this frame-up
overlooked that small detail. If they had thought of it, it would have
been easy for them to have touched up the negative a bit so as to have
spoiled the face of that clock.”

The faces of Gale and Chief Hodgins had turned quite pale. Their pallor
increased when Judge Wall examined the negative, and, in a tone of great
astonishment, confirmed the defendant’s statement.

“The hands of the clock in this picture certainly are pointing to three
o’clock,” his honor declared. “What does it mean, chief?”

“The clock must have been fast,” suggested Hodgins, in an agitated tone.

The judge glanced out of the courtroom window, from which the white
clock tower of the city hall was visible. Then he consulted his watch,
and the timepiece on the wall of the courtroom.

“The city-hall clock is not fast--it is exactly right!” he declared
sharply. “Moreover, I have never heard of that clock being wrong. I
don’t believe it has gained or lost a minute in ten years. I can’t
understand this thing at all, chief.”

Judge Wall was a friend of Chief Hodgins and the other members of the
political ring which the _Bulletin_ was fighting. He was willing to do a
lot to accommodate these men, but he emphatically drew the line at
sending an innocent man to jail.

Therefore, when he had heard the Camera Chap’s story, he turned to
Hodgins with a frown. “I am afraid I shall have to throw this case out
of court, chief,” he said. “There are several things about it which I
don’t understand; but, in view of these--ahem--surprising developments,
I am convinced that there is not sufficient evidence to justify me in
convicting this young man. The prisoner is discharged.”




CHAPTER XIII.

GUERRILLA WARFARE.


“I suppose you are going to get after those fellows now and send them
both to jail for conspiracy,” said Fred Carroll to Hawley, as he sat
chatting in the _Bulletin_ office half an hour after the Camera Chap’s
triumphant departure from the police court. “You’ve certainly a strong
case against them.”

“Oh, no! I shan’t bother,” Hawley replied. “I think their disappointment
is punishment enough for them. I had the last laugh, and I’m quite
satisfied. As far as I’m concerned, the case is closed. Of course,
though, it’s possible that the magistrate may deem it his duty to take
up the matter on his own hook.”

“There’s not much chance of that,” said Carroll, with a laugh. “Wall and
Hodgins are good friends. I guess the judge will be only too glad to let
the matter drop, if you don’t press it.

“And I’m mighty glad to hear you say you don’t intend to do so, old
man,” the proprietor of the _Bulletin_ declared. “On Melba’s account, I
mean. She hasn’t much use for her cousin; but still, she’d be greatly
distressed, I guess, if he were sent to jail. She’s a very sensitive
girl, and no doubt would feel the disgrace keenly.”

“If I had any desire to prosecute those fellows--which I haven’t--that
argument would be quite sufficient to stop me,” the Camera Chap
declared. “I wouldn’t for worlds do anything to distress Miss Gale.
She’s one of the nicest girls I’ve ever met. You are, indeed, to be
congratulated, Fred.”

“Who? Me?” exclaimed Carroll, making a clumsy attempt to appear
bewildered. “What the dickens are you talking about, Frank?”

Hawley laughed. “Say, do you think I’m blind? Don’t you suppose I got
wise to the situation as soon as I saw you two together to-day? You
might as well ’fess up, old scout.”

“I suppose I might as well,” the other answered, grinning sheepishly.
“Yes, Frank, you’ve hit it right--though how the deuce you guessed it,
you infernal old wizard, I can’t imagine--Melba and I are secretly
engaged. She’s the finest girl in the world, and----”

“Why secretly engaged?” the Camera Chap broke in hastily. He had had
experience with fellows in love before, and he knew that once they get
to talking about the fair one’s charms it is mighty hard to get them to
stop.

“I should think you’d be glad to proclaim your engagement to all the
world,” he added. “Why on earth are you keeping it a secret?”

“Because Melba insists upon it,” Carroll explained. “You see, poor
little girl, she’s an orphan, and her uncle and cousin are the only kin
she has. She doesn’t want to be turned out of her uncle’s home, and she
has an idea that that’s what would happen if the fact of our engagement
were to become known to that old fox.”

Hawley nodded. “I see. Does the uncle know that you are even on speaking
terms with her?”

“Oh, yes! He is aware that we are acquainted. I used to call on her at
the house when I first came to Oldham, until he made it quite clear to
me that my presence there was not desired--by him.”

“And since then you have kept away?” chuckled Hawley.

“Sure! I didn’t want to embarrass Melba. Of course, we have been meeting
frequently outside right along; but I don’t think the old man has any
suspicion of that.”

“Well, why don’t you elope with the girl?” the Camera Chap suggested.
“It seems to me that, under the circumstances, that’s the only thing to
do. If I were in your place, Fred, I’d have married her long ago.”

Carroll frowned. “You’re talking like an idiot,” he declared
indignantly. “How can I get married when I haven’t a cent to my name? As
I told you the other day, the _Bulletin_ isn’t making enough money to
support even me alone. If I married Melba in my present circumstances
I’d deserve to be sent to State’s prison--or a lunatic asylum.”

“Well, what’s the matter with giving up the _Bulletin_ and going back to
Park Row?” the Camera Chap suggested, watching his friend’s face
narrowly. “As a reporter, you could at least make enough to support a
wife.”

To Hawley’s great joy, a grim, fighting look came to Carroll’s face at
these words.

“Give up the _Bulletin_!” he exclaimed tensely. “Not while there’s a
breath of life left in the old sheet. I’m no quitter, Frank. I thought
you knew me better than that. Those fellows have got me groggy, I must
admit; but they haven’t got me quite down and out yet. When that
happens, I may go back to Park Row and hunt a job as a reporter, but not
before.

“And even if I wanted to quit,” he went on, with a whimsical smile, “I
couldn’t do it. Melba wouldn’t hear of it. She’s thoroughly in sympathy
with the policy of the _Bulletin_, and she wouldn’t have much use for me
if I were to give up the fight.”

The Camera Chap grabbed his friend’s hand impulsively. “Old man,” he
cried, “I’m tickled to death to hear you talk like that--although it’s
only what I expected, of course.

“Tell me, Mr. Editor,” he went on eagerly, “could you use some snapshots
on your front page every issue--good, live snapshots taken on the
streets of Oldham? It seems to me that they would brighten up the sheet
and help circulation.”

“Of course they would,” Carroll declared regarding Hawley with
astonishment. “I’d be mighty glad to have them. But where could I get
them?”

The Camera Chap made a mock obeisance. “I should feel highly honored,
sir, if you would appoint me staff photographer of the Oldham
_Bulletin_. The position would be only temporary, of course, and the
salary would be nothing.”

“You!” exclaimed Carroll, with an incredulous laugh. “You don’t mean to
say that, after the narrow escape you’ve just had, you’d be rash enough
to attempt to take any more pictures on the streets of this town?”

“Appoint me as your staff photographer,” said the Camera Chap
earnestly, “and I’ll undertake to supply you with at least one good
snapshot for every issue.”

“Taken on the streets of Oldham?”

“Yes--in most cases,” Hawley replied.

Carroll stared at him in astonishment. “What’s the idea, Frank?” he
asked. “How on earth do you expect to get away with it?”

The Camera Chap chuckled. “Guerrilla warfare, old man,” he said. “It’ll
be the rarest sport I’ve ever had. Guerrilla warfare with a camera.”




CHAPTER XIV.

A MAD UNDERTAKING.


The Camera Chap watched the puzzled face of the _Bulletin’s_ editor as
the latter pondered on his rash proposal. “Do I get the job, Fred?” he
inquired eagerly. “May I consider myself a regular staff photographer of
the Oldham _Daily Bulletin_?”

“You may not,” Carroll replied emphatically. “You reckless Indian!” he
added, with a laugh. “Do you think for a minute that I’m going to listen
to such a proposition? This stunt that you propose is the wildest idea
that has ever taken shape in that harum-scarum brain of yours. If I
thought that you were tired of liberty and had a feverish longing to
spend the next six months in jail, I might be willing to consider your
offer. But I have no reason to believe that such is the case.”

Hawley grinned. “I have no desire to go to prison, and no intention of
going there if I can possibly keep out,” he declared. “But really I
don’t see any reason why the venture should have such a disastrous
result.”

“You don’t, eh?” rejoined Carroll with an ironical laugh. “I suppose if
that chair you are sitting on were a keg of dynamite, you’d see no
particular danger in drumming your heels against its sides. Do you
suppose you could go out taking snapshots on the highways of Oldham in
defiance of the new anticamera law, and keep out of the clutches of the
police? You might possibly get away with the first picture, although
even that is doubtful; but you’d surely be nabbed on your second
attempt.”

“Why are you so sure of that?” Hadley inquired.

“Why am I sure of it? Why am I sure that a man who couldn’t swim would
drown if he were to jump overboard from the hurricane deck of a liner in
mid-Atlantic on a dark night? Because, my reckless young friend, my
common sense enables me to foresee clearly what would happen in both
cases. Our friend, Chief Hodgins, would stay awake night and day in
order to take advantage of such a grand opportunity to get even with
you. Every policeman of the Oldham force would have instructions to
bring you in, alive or dead. My esteemed contemporary, the _Chronicle_,
would publish a full description of you, refer to you as ‘the camera
bandit,’ and appeal to all good citizens to aid in your capture. The
whole city of Oldham would be on the watch for you. What chance would
you have?”

A sparkle came to the eyes of the Camera Chap. “By Jove, Fred, that’s an
alluring picture you’ve painted!” he exclaimed, with great enthusiasm.

“Alluring?” repeated the other deprecatingly.

“Yes. I hadn’t figured that it would be quite as exciting as all that.
But I have no doubt the conditions will be just as you’ve pictured
them, and I can see that I’m going to have even more fun than I
expected.”

“Fun! Do you mean to say that you could get any fun out of a situation
of that sort?”

“Why, of course,” Hawley replied simply. “Think of the sport of taking
snapshots in the face of such difficulties! Think of the fun of dodging
those fellows! The greater the danger, you know, Fred, the more
fascination there is to the picture game. There’s nothing in taking
snapshots which require no risk.”

To some men who did not know Frank Hawley, these words might have
sounded suspiciously like bombast; but Carroll knew well that the New
York _Sentinel’s_ star camera man was no braggart, and that what he had
just said simply and truly expressed his viewpoint regarding “the
picture game.”

“But, apart from the good time I shall have, think what a great thing
this snapshot campaign of mine will be for the _Bulletin_,” the Camera
Chap continued earnestly. “I predict a big boom in your paper’s
circulation, Fred, as soon as I get started. The more I’m denounced by
the police and the _Chronicle_, the more eager people will be to see the
pictures taken by ‘the desperate camera bandit.’ _Bulletins_ will sell
like hot cakes, Fred, and your coffers will be full of real money. For
Miss Melba’s sake, as well as your own, you’ve got to accept my
proposition.”

In spite of himself, a wistful expression came to Carroll’s face. He
realized the truth of what Hawley said. He had every reason to believe
that snapshots taken under such conditions and published daily on the
front page of the _Bulletin_ would greatly increase the sale of that
paper.

He had been furnished a striking proof of this a few days earlier when
he had published those snapshots showing Chief of Police Hodgins asleep
at his desk. There had been a big rise in circulation that day. Papers
had sold as fast as the newsboys could hand them out. Everybody in
Oldham had appreciated the joke on the fat chief of police and rushed to
procure copies of those amusing pictures. And the very next day the sale
of the _Bulletin_ had fallen off, showing Carroll conclusively that it
was Hawley’s snapshots alone which had brought about that sudden and all
too transient wave of prosperity.

Therefore the proprietor of the _Bulletin_ was sorely tempted now by the
Camera Chap’s offer; but, putting his own interests aside, he shook his
head in emphatic negation.

“I admit that it might help our circulation along, old man,” he began;
“but you see----”

“It would probably bring you a lot of advertising, too,” Hawley broke
in. “Really, Fred, I shouldn’t be at all surprised if this camera
campaign resulted in a bunch of nice, fat advertising contracts for the
_Bulletin_.”

“I doubt that,” said Carroll. “It is true that increased advertising
generally follows increased circulation; but it wouldn’t in my case. As
I told you the other day, most of the big advertisers of this town are
connected in some way or other with that bunch of grafters the
_Bulletin_ is fighting, and they wouldn’t advertise in our columns no
matter what figures our circulation books might show.”

“Maybe they wouldn’t,” the Camera Chap rejoined; “but there are lots of
others who would. I wasn’t thinking about the local advertisers. I have
in mind the big concerns--the breakfast-food people, the purveyors of
potted ham, canned soups, cocoa, and mixed pickles; the manufacturers of
safety razors, automobiles, shaving soaps, ready-made clothing, et
cetera. That’s the kind of advertising we’ll get for your sheet, Fred.”

Carroll laughed grimly. “Don’t you suppose I’ve been after all those
people already? There’s nothing doing with any of them. I’ve called
personally on those whose advertising offices are in near-by cities, and
spent a small fortune in postage stamps corresponding with the rest. Not
one of them could be made to see that it would be to his advantage to
advertise in the Oldham _Bulletin_.”

“Of course not,” exclaimed Hawley; “not while your circulation is as low
as it is at present. Naturally, they’ve no desire to throw their money
away. But wait until we’ve boosted the _Bulletin’s_ circulation
sky-high. Then we can talk contracts to them, and I’ll wager they’ll be
ready enough to listen.

“So, you see, Fred,” he added laughingly, “you really can’t afford to
turn down my application for the position of staff photographer on your
esteemed paper.”




CHAPTER XV.

A DETERMINED STAND.


“Nevertheless, I’m going to turn it down,” Carroll declared firmly. “I
won’t hear of your doing this thing, I’m not going to have it on my
conscience that I was the cause of your being sent to jail. It’s no use
arguing with me, old man; I positively refuse to let you run this risk
on my account.”

“Very well,” said the Camera Chap quietly. “Of course, I have no desire
to press my services on you if you don’t want them. But I shall go ahead
with this camera campaign, just the same. The pictures will make an
interesting addition to my scrapbook.”

“You crazy Indian! Surely you don’t mean that?”

“I certainly do. If you think I’m going to miss all this fun just
because you won’t give me a job on your paper, you’re very much
mistaken. Of course, I should greatly prefer to have the snapshots
published in the _Bulletin_. I really think that they’ll be worth
publishing. But since you can’t see it that way, I suppose I’ll have to
be satisfied with adding them to my private collection.”

Carroll glanced searchingly at his friend’s face and was convinced of
his earnestness. Then, with a laugh, he extended his big hand.

“You win, old fellow,” he said. “Since you’re determined to go ahead
anyway, I’d be all kinds of a fool if I were to fail to take advantage
of this opportunity. The chances are about a million to one that you’ll
be nabbed and thrown into jail on your first attempt; but if by a
miracle you should succeed in getting any pictures, I’ll be tickled to
death to use them in the _Bulletin_.”

“Good boy!” exclaimed Hawley joyously. “That’ll be much more
satisfactory to me than pasting them in my scrapbook. And now that I’m a
full-fledged member of your staff, Fred--beg pardon; I should say
boss--have you any instructions for me? Any particular picture
assignment you wish me to go out and cover?”

“Oh, no; I shall not give you any assignments. I’ll leave it entirely to
you to select your own subjects. Anything will do. No matter what the
snapshots may be--even if it’s only a picture of an electric-light
pole--the extraordinary circumstances will make it of sufficient value
to be worth a place on our front page.”

“Very good,” said Hawley; “I am inclined to agree with you that it will
be the best policy to give me a free hand. But I assure you,” he added,
with a chuckle, “I have no intention of snapshotting such uninteresting
subjects as electric-light poles. The kind of pictures I intend to go
after will have a little more life to them than that. In fact, I have an
idea now for a group of snapshots which I think would be of great
interest to the _Bulletin’s_ readers. If I can put it across, I think it
will make even more of a hit than those pictures of the sleeping police
chief.”

“What’s the idea?” Carroll inquired, with a little more eagerness than
he was desirous of manifesting.

The Camera Chap drew his chair nearer, and lowered his voice almost to a
whisper: “Do you remember, Fred, that stunt the _Sentinel_ pulled off
several years ago, when we were roasting the New York police department?
I mean those automobiles filled with reporters which the _Sentinel_ sent
out one night to tour the entire city and count the number of cops who
were loafing instead of patrolling their beats?”

“Do I remember it!” exclaimed Carroll, with a reminiscent chuckle. “I
should say I do! It was just after I joined the _Sentinel_ staff. I was
one of the reporters assigned to the story. I shall never forget that
automobile ride. We rode a hundred blocks, and in all that distance only
encountered one policeman who was conscientiously attending to business.
The exposé the _Sentinel_ published the next day created a whopping big
scandal, and resulted in the biggest shake-up in the history of the New
York police department.”

“That’s right,” said Hawley. “Well, what’s the matter, Fred, with
pulling off something on those lines right here in Oldham? I’ve got a
hunch that this city isn’t being patrolled any too well during the night
hours. With a lazy, incompetent fathead like Hodgins at the head of the
force, it’s a pretty safe guess that there isn’t much discipline among
the rank and file. A tour of the city by night probably would reveal
some interesting facts about the Oldham police department.”

Carroll nodded vigorously. “You bet it would. You are quite right in
supposing that the cops of this burg are a pretty punk lot. The great
majority of them got their appointments to the force by political pull,
and--well, as you can readily imagine, they’re not by any means the best
material that could have been found for the job. Yes, your suggestion is
a mighty good one, Hawley, old man. I deserve to be kicked for not
having thought of it myself long ago. An exposé of that sort ought to
sell a lot of _Bulletins_.”

“Sure it would!” declared the Camera Chap enthusiastically. “I’m glad
you approve. Thought you’d look at it in that light. Guess there’s no
sense in wasting any time,” he added. “I might as well get busy this
very night.”

The proprietor of the _Bulletin_ looked at him in astonishment. “You get
busy? Why, what is there for you to do, old man! This’ll be a reporter’s
task. Pictures, of course, will be quite out of the question.”

“Oh, will they, though?” chuckled Hawley. “I don’t agree with you there.
The pictures will be the main feature of this exposé. Of course, we’ll
have a story, too--a couple of columns or so of reading matter to go
with the snapshots--but, with all modesty, I think I can say that it
will be my camera which will give the people of Oldham the most graphic
idea of what the police force is doing while the town slumbers.”

“Nonsense!” Carroll expostulated. “This will be at night. How can you
take pictures----”

“How can I?” Hawley interrupted. “What a peculiar question! Surely, my
dear Fred, you must be forgetting all about the existence of a certain
compound called magnesium powder.”

“What!” cried Carroll, almost rising in his chair. “Man alive! You don’t
mean to say you’d be insane enough to attempt to take snapshots on the
streets of Oldham by flash light?”

The Camera Chap grinned at his friend’s display of horrified amazement.

“Oh, yes, I’ll have to use that flash-light powder, of course,” he
answered. “I don’t know of any other way of taking pictures at night;
and we positively must have those snapshots.”


TO BE CONTINUED.




HOW HE PAID HIS PASSAGE.

W. BERT FOSTER.


“Come, now, hustle out o’ here!”

“I ain’t doin’ any harm.”

“You git out, I say, an’ don’t ye talk back to me!”

“Please, mister----”

“Git!”

Big Bill Bronson, the dock watchman, raised his heavy hand
threateningly, and the forlorn little chap, whom he had addressed in
such rough tones, climbed painfully out of the box of straw in which he
had taken refuge, as he hoped, for the night.

“We don’t want no young wharf rats like you round here,” Big Bill
declared. “So, git along with you!”

It was still early in the evening. Perhaps if Terry Carson had waited
until it had grown darker he might have ensconced himself in the box
unobserved, and spent the night in comparative comfort. But he had been
so tired that he had risked seeking his “lodging” early, with the above
result.

For days he had tramped the streets of the seaport town, looking for a
job. But nobody seemed to want him, or his services. The past fortnight
had been a terrible experience to young Terry.

“I warn’t goin’ for to do any harm, sir,” he said, having gotten out of
the box of straw.

“I dunno whether you was or not,” growled Bill. “There’s too many of the
like o’ you ’round. Come, move on, or I’ll hand ye over to the cop!”

At this threat, Terry had to give up all hope of his lodging, and moved
painfully away.

“I just hate this town!” he muttered. “There ain’t no place in it for
me. I wish I could get away from it, so I do.”

His eyes wandered across the broad docks to the shipping
beyond--tall-masted, deep-sea vessels all.

“I wish I could get aboard one o’ them boats an’ just sail away from
this mean old place.”

It was not too dark yet to reveal the decks pretty clearly. The fading
light revealed Terry’s sturdy figure, too. He was a strong, well-built
chap of fifteen.

“Jiminy crickets! I b’lieve I’ll try it!” he muttered, after an
instant’s silent scrutiny of the individual on the quarter of the
nearest craft; and then, despite the fact that big Bill, the watchman,
shouted after him, he turned away from the great gate, which was the
only entrance by land to the dock, and marched up the narrow gangplank
to the vessel’s deck.

Captain Josh Carlton, who was pacing the deck with a huge cigar between
his teeth, suddenly became conscious of the presence of somebody beside
himself upon the quarter, by a shrill voice, which piped out:

“Mister, I say!”

“Who the dickens are you?” demanded the captain in surprise, gazing down
upon young Terry from his height of six foot four.

“Terrence Carson.”

“Well, you little sawed-off, what d’ye want here?”

Terry drew himself up to his full height. His “stubbedness” was the
tender point.

“I want to ship,” he declared.

“You want to ship! Haw, haw, haw!”

Captain Carlton fairly shook with laughter.

“Why, your head hardly reaches the rail,” he said, taking the boy by the
arm and twisting him about with his face to the shore. “Now, sonny,
that’s the way ashore. You git!”

Poor Terry, urged by the captain’s vigorous shove, walked slowly back to
the wharf, and thence to the street. Once outside the gate, he stamped
his ill-shod foot determinedly upon the rough pavement.

“I just will do it!” he declared. “They can’t keep me off their old
vessel, however hard they try. I’m going to sea in the _Calypso_, I am!”

Thus it happened that, half an hour later, when Captain Carlton left the
_Calypso_ and went uptown to look over the men whom the shipping agent
had gotten together for him, leaving the vessel in sole charge of the
steward, a ragged figure, sneaking along beside the piled-up cases on
the dock, darted across the gangplank and onto the _Calypso’s_ deck.

Neither the steward nor Bill Bronson, the burly dock watchman, saw him,
for they were conversing very earnestly together forward. Terry was
totally unfamiliar with a ship, having always lived back in the country;
so he made the mistake of entering the cabin for concealment.

It was a nicely furnished apartment, for Captain Carlton was quite a
fastidious man, and at one end a heavy curtain hung before a small
lavatory. Behind this curtain Terry darted. He had heard Bill say that
the _Calypso_ would sail early the next morning, and he believed that
once the vessel got out of the harbor, she would not be put about for
the sake of landing him again.

Hardly had he ensconced himself behind this drapery, when he detected
the sound of a footstep softly descending the companion stairs. A moment
later, the steward, a low-browed, snaky-looking Italian, appeared. It
struck Terry at once that the man’s manner seemed odd. He appeared to be
fearful of the presence of some unknown person, and glanced
apprehensively around him as he stepped into the center of the room
under the swinging lamp.

And what followed made the boy’s suspicions a surety. The Italian had
not entered the cabin during the absence of the captain and officers for
any legitimate purpose.

Assuring himself, as he supposed, that he was unobserved, the steward
crept softly from door to door, and, opening each, peered into the
several staterooms for the purpose of seeing if any were by chance
occupied. Confident that this was not the case, he went back to the foot
of the companionway and whistled shrilly.

Evidently this was a signal, for at once a heavy step crossed the deck
and descended to the cabin. Terry, round-eyed with bewilderment at these
proceedings, peered out from behind the curtains and discovered that the
newcomer was none other than the watchman, Bill Bronson.

“Eet ees alla quiet, Bill,” the steward declared, reassuringly, as big
Bill glanced suspiciously about. “Not a soula here. We ees alla right.”

Bill growled in reply, and stepped at once to the center of the room,
shoving aside a heavy chart table which stood there. Beneath the table
was a square of matting which seemed but lightly tacked down, for with
one twitch the watchman ripped it off the floor, revealing a trapdoor
beneath.

“Dere she ees, Bill,” exclaimed the Italian exultantly.

He stooped and raised the trap hastily. The burly watchman squeezed
himself into the hole with much grunting and profanity, and, having
gotten his head below the level of the floor, began at once to hand out
packages, each wrapped carefully in black enamel cloth.

“Work quick, Tonio. No tellin’ when them fellers’ll git back. The boat’s
right under the quarter.”

The steward’s reply was to gather several packages in his arms and
hastily ascend to the deck.

Terry, meanwhile, had been doing what he called “some tall thinking.” He
knew that something remarkably shady was in progress. He could not guess
what was in the packages, but that it was something valuable he did not
doubt. The treacherous steward and watchman were robbing the _Calypso’s_
commander, or her owners.

Quick as a flash, when Antonio had disappeared, Terry darted out from
behind the curtain and slammed down the trapdoor, shooting the strong
bolt at once into place, thus securing the trap firmly. Big Bill was a
prisoner.

The muffled sounds of the watchman’s voice could not reach the deck, but
Terry reached it almost at a single bound. Antonio’s figure was faintly
visible as he leaned over the rail, tugging at the painter of the small
boat, which had become fouled. The packages had been laid on the deck
while he was thus engaged.

Terry’s mind worked quickly, and the moment his feet touched the deck he
saw his chance for overcoming the second river pirate. He lowered his
head and charged across the deck like a bolt from a cannon.

His head caught Antonio just below the waistband, and, although the
shock well-nigh dislocated his neck and sent him flat upon the deck, it
also drove the light body of the astonished steward flying overboard,
where he landed, frog fashion, in the dirty dock water.

He might have come back and easily overpowered the boy and released his
companion, but Antonio didn’t know that. Never for an instant doubting
that the gigantic Captain Carlton had returned unexpectedly and kicked
him overboard, the steward swam hastily to a neighboring pier and made
good his escape.

Not so big Bill, however. Captain Carlton and his two officers found
him, almost suffocated, in the secret compartment, while a greatly
demoralized boy stood guard above with a boathook almost as heavy as
himself.

When Bill had been pulled out of his prison and marched off under a
guard of two blue-coated policemen to a much safer place of durance,
Captain Carlton turned to young Terry.

“Well, Shorty,” he said jovially, placing his big hands upon the boy’s
shoulders, “so you’re the lad who wanted to ship as an A. B., eh? Got
over it?”

“No, sir. I came down here intending to hide away till after you had
sailed. I want to get away from this town, so I do.”

“And you shall. You’ve saved the owners a pretty penny,” he added,
touching the packages strewn about the floor, with his foot; “and I
reckon they won’t begrudge you your passage. I guess he’s paid his fare,
sure enough, ain’t he, boys?”

And the two inferior officers agreed warmly. However, before that first
trip was over, Terry had made himself so useful to the _Calypso’s_
commander, that he made many more on the same vessel. In fact, he is
still with the good ship, and is probably one of the youngest second
mates sailing out of the port of Rivermouth.




WHAT PUNISHMENT BY THE KNOUT MEANS.


We read of crimes and cruelties perpetrated in days long, long gone by,
and, with a pitying sigh for the wretched sufferers, we thank Heaven
that the blessed light of civilization illuminates the nineteenth
century. We do not realize that a government, so-called Christian, even
to this day, can wantonly cause such heart-rending sufferings as Russia
metes out to Poland.

To be exempt from corporal chastisement is one of the privileges of a
Russian nobleman; yet this does not prevent the torture being applied to
Polish political prisoners even when they are of noble blood.

The subject, albeit a sad one, is not without a certain interest,
particularly when we recall the memory of brave men and braver women who
have yielded up a weary life while undergoing this, the most cruel of
tortures--the knout.

The knout is a strip of hide, a thing which is steeped in some
preparation, and strongly glazed, as it were, with metal filings. By
this process it becomes both heavy and excessively hard; but before it
hardens care is taken to double down the edges, which are left thin, and
in this way a groove runs the length of the thong.

The upper part winds around the hand of the executioner; to the other
end a small iron hook is fastened. Falling upon the bare back of the
sufferer, the knout comes down on its concave side, of which the edges
cut like a knife. The thing thus lies in the flesh.

The executioner does not lift it up, but draws it toward him
horizontally, so that the hook tears off long strips. If the executioner
has not been bribed, the victim loses consciousness after the third
stroke, and sometimes dies under the fifth.

The scaffold is an inclined plane, to which the man is tied with his
back uncovered. The head and feet are firmly fastened, and the hands,
which are knotted together, go round below the plank, any movement of
the body becoming impossible.

After receiving the prescribed number of strokes, the poor wretch is
untied, and, on his knees, undergoes the cruel punishment of being
marked. The letters “Vor”--meaning thief or malefactor--are printed in
sharp, pointed letters on a stamp, which the executioner drives into the
forehead, and into both cheeks, and, while the blood runs, a black
mixture, of which gunpowder is an ingredient, is rubbed into the wounds;
they heal, but the bluish scar remains for life.




QUICK THINKING.


An adventure is related by a sportsman which shows that a hunter’s life
may depend upon his attention to small details. With one of his friends,
he was out shooting, when a solitary bull buffalo appeared on the
opposite side of a small stream. The bull was evidently in a state of
great excitement, for, as the hunters drew near, he faced them, tore up
the turf with his horns, and looked down the perpendicular bank, twelve
feet high, as though meditating descent.

The sportsman’s friend, who carried a little rifle--a single barrel,
which shot a small, spherical ball--had, by the other’s advice, doubled
his charge of powder.

“Aim at the back of the neck if the buffalo lowers his head,” said the
sportsman to his companion, throwing a hard clod of earth so that it
fell into the water at the foot of the bank. The splash caused the
animal to look down, exposing his neck. The friend fired. The bull
convulsively turned round and fell upon his side. The two men waded
across the stream at a shallow place, and ran to where the prostrate
animal was lying, apparently dead. The marksman, standing in front of
the bull’s head, reveled in the delight of his first buffalo.

“Never stand at the head of a buffalo, whether dead or alive,” exclaimed
the other, whose experience had taught him to be cautious. “Stand upon
the side, facing the back of the animal, well away from its legs, as I
am standing now.”

Scarcely had he uttered the words, when the bull sprang to his feet, and
blundered forward straight at his astonished friend, not three feet
distant. He jumped forward to avoid the horns, but tripped and fell upon
his back, right in the path of the savage bull.

As quick as lightning, the sportsman drew his long hunting knife, and
plunged it behind the buffalo’s shoulder. The animal fell at the blow.
He had received his death stroke.




MISUNDERSTOOD.


While a certain lady was feeding a hungry tramp the other day, she
discovered that he was pocketing her silverware.

Seizing a poker, she exclaimed:

“Drop those spoons, you scoundrel, and leave the house; leave it
instantly!”

“But, madame----”

“Leave the house, I say! Leave the house!” screamed the infuriated
woman.

“I go, madame,” said the tramp, “never to return; but before I do, I
would like to say that I did not intend to take your house.”

       *       *       *       *       *




THE NEWS OF ALL NATIONS.


Sale of Letters is Stopped.

The sale of more than eight hundred autograph letters, valued at twelve
thousand dollars, advertised to take place at a Philadelphia auction
room, was stopped by order of a common pleas court, following injunction
proceedings by the State of New Hampshire on the ground that the letters
are part of its official archives.

The collection is said to be of great historic importance, and contain
letters written by George Washington and other revolutionary statesmen
and soldiers. The injunction petition declares that all the letters were
originally in the custody of the first governor of New Hampshire. The
papers disappeared many years ago, and their whereabouts was not
disclosed until May, 1913.


Ban on Alcohol in United States Soon, is His Prediction.

“The greatest good thing that has happened in the world since the
resurrection of Christ was the prohibition proclamation of Czar
Nicholas, of Russia. One hundred and sixty million people went on the
water wagon overnight, and to-day they are all glad of it.”

This statement was only one of many pointed declarations made by Clinton
N. Howard, of Rochester, N. Y., at one of the closing meetings of the
big Christian Endeavor Convention in Chicago. He addressed delegates
from every part of the country. The convention brought more than ten
thousand to the Chicago Coliseum.

“We have been applying a small plaster in an effort to cure a big sore,”
said Howard, who is known as the “Little Giant.” Tiny of body, he flung
down the gauntlet in vigorous terms and predicted a dry United States
before long. “We have temporized with John Barleycorn,” he said, “when
he has been convicted a million times.

“For many months there has been a terrible war on the other side of the
ocean. I venture to predict it will be won by those forces which have
forsworn the use of alcoholic liquor.

“Three years before the war began the kaiser, addressing a large body of
young men just being graduated into active naval service, said:

“‘I ask that you hereafter dispense wholly with strong drink. I want my
men to be able to steer my ships straight, and to shoot straight, and
that cannot be done unless a man is sober.’

“To-day there is sitting in the presidential chair of the United States
the most princely man who has ever graced that position. He is a good
man, a great man, and I would to God he had the same power right now
that is vested in Czar Nicholas.

“Alcohol is intrenched on a line which it has held for many years, but
the allied forces of decency, honesty, humanity, economy are slowly but
surely driving it back.”


Oldest College Man Dies.

Reverend Doctor John Fryer Messick, who has the distinction of being the
oldest living college graduate in the United States, died just two days
after his one-hundred-and-second-birthday anniversary.

Doctor Messick was born in Albany, N. Y., June 28, 1813, and graduated
as valedictorian of the class of 1834 at Rutgers College, New Brunswick,
N. J. He graduated from Rutgers Seminary three years later.

In 1836, Doctor Messick cast his first vote for Henry Clay, Whig
candidate for President of the United States. He reached his
one-hundredth birthday without any physical defect whatever.


Ball Players Dialect Different from Fans.

Baseball fans used to talk about the same language as the players. But
it’s different now. Whether they did it just to be different or just to
amuse themselves, the present generation of ball players, including many
young gents from our most famous institutions of pure English, have
invented a new line of lingo, by which they converse among themselves.
Here’s the key to a few of the terms now used by all our best players:

Deceiver--A Pitcher.

Monkey Suits--Baseball uniforms.

Uniform--Civilian clothes.

Dogs--Feet.

Sneaks--Soft-soled shoes.

Wolves--Knocking fans.

Orchard--Ball park.

Glue--Money.

Him or He--The manager of the club.

Agate--Regulation baseball.

Sullivans--Upper berths. Also tourist sleepers which have cane seats.

Ducat--A pass to the game.

Stuff--The curves a pitcher puts on the ball.

Bludgeon--A bat.

Work--The act of playing ball.

Geyser--A spitball pitcher.

Groceries--Meals. Also used to denote prizes offered by merchants for
early-season feats.


At Seventy-two a “Schoolboy.”

One never gets too old to attend school is a principle strongly
advocated by Joseph Gillet, oldest “schoolboy” in the engineering
courses of the continuation school in Milwaukee, Wis. Mr. Gillet has
just turned seventy-two, but he has the appearance and memory of a man
of fifty. Although he was denied opportunities of learning to a great
extent when he was a boy, he has tried to grasp every opportunity in
adult life. This is the eighth time he has matriculated at a school
which would offer him advancement.

He was born in Alsace, where he was graduated from the public school at
fourteen. Later he attended a private continuation school for six
months, after which he decided to learn the machinist trade. From 1860
to 1864 he was an apprentice. Three years later he entered a
marine-engineering school, where he remained six months. Finally, before
leaving France, he tried sea diving.

When Mr. Gillet landed in Montreal in 1872, he at once entered an
English school. His progress in the language was so rapid that in a
little while he became a teacher in a night school, at the same time
studying steam engineering and drafting. In 1906 he began an electrical
course at Marquette College and continued it for six years.

“I have always been accustomed to much work,” declared Mr. Gillet, “and
have made it a point to take advantage of it. One can always learn
something new in the mechanical trade. I cannot be idle.”


Ground Hogs Invade Indiana Farms.

Farmers in the western part of Delaware County, Ind., are up in arms
against the ground hog. Hundreds of the pests overrun the farms in that
part of the country.

Many farms are literally honeycombed with ground-hog holes. It is said
that on one farm not far from Daleville there are as many as five
hundred ground-hog dens. The sport of shooting the animals has replaced
all others, and hunters who fare afield after these weather prophets
seldom go unrewarded.

Apparently the situation has proved to be of keen interest to the
squirrels, which are seldom hunted now in that vicinity, the hunters
preferring the larger and juicier game, and at the same time conferring
a benefit on the farmers by reducing the number of pests which destroy
so much corn. According to riflemen and others the squirrels, which are
numerous in that part of the country have become positively tame because
they have not been hunted. But the ground hogs have become wary and keep
sentinels posted, which, by their whistling, warn their comrades of the
hunter’s approach.

The ground hog’s call is a clear, distinct whistle, not greatly unlike
the singing of a canary bird, only much louder and even sweeter in tone.
It is interesting to observe a full-grown ground hog, weighing several
pounds, emitting a melodious warble that might well belong to a
feathered songster.

Doctor Camdon C. McKinney of Daleville, is perhaps, eastern Indiana’s
greatest “ground-hog expert” and what he does not know about these
little animals and their ways of living is not worth knowing.
Incidentally Doctor McKinney is a crack rifle shot and not only does
fried or roasted ground hog grace his family table as often as he may
desire, but he supplies a few friends in Muncie and elsewhere with this
delicacy on occasion.

“I like to observe the ground hog in his native habitat almost as well
as I like to eat his succulent flesh,” said Doctor McKinney. “The
farmer’s chief objection to him and the reason that he welcomes hunters
who will destroy the ground hog is because the animals insist on
destroying corn. As soon as the corn fills out and reaches the
roasting-ear stage the ground hogs get busy and devour the ears, either
on the spot where they find them or they drag the corn to their dens and
eat it there at their leisure, the whole family of the particular den
joining in the feast much as the human family does at the same season of
year.

“Family by family these little animals will fill their dens to
overflowing with the products of the farmer’s toil, and one family will
even assist a neighbor who is a little short of help in the ground-hog
harvest time. Thus it may be seen that a large colony of ground hogs may
cause a great loss in a corn community.]

“Human beings might well learn from the ground hog the Biblical lesson:
‘It is good for brethren to dwell together in amity.’ Ground hogs do not
fight among themselves, but they stand up for each other through thick
and thin. A personal incident will illustrate this. The other day while
hunting I noticed one of the little animals stick his head cautiously
out of his hole. When he finally ventured entirely out, I shot him, but
I never saw him afterward. No sooner did he fall than his family rushed
out and dragged him back into the den.

“The only way a hunter can get close enough to one of these animals to
make a good shot is to hide himself not far from a hole and wait for the
ground hog to appear. He first will peer out cautiously, only the end of
his snout and his twinkling eyes being visible. Then withdrawing,
possibly to report to the others of the family that the coast is clear,
he displays a little more of his body at the mouth of the den, and then
again runs back. He does this several times, running back each time, and
on each reappearance displaying a little more of his body.

“Finally satisfied that there is no enemy in sight, he comes entirely
into view, and, standing upright on his hind legs, cocks his head to one
side, like a rooster that has been out in the rain. It is then that the
hunter’s opportunity has arrived.

“The ground hog is largely a vegetarian although he does eat bugs, but
prefers grains, roots, and grasses. Unlike the opossum, he will not
touch carrion nor any unwholesome food.”


For Good Health Drink Deeply of Adam’s Ale.

“A gallon a day will keep the doctor away.”

This is what many physicians say--in one way or another--when asked if
it is a good thing to drink much water.

Doctors disagree, however, about whether it is a good thing to drink
water with meals, the majority believing that food should not be washed
down with liquids, but should be thoroughly chewed and mixed with
saliva, which is an aid to digestion. But several doctors who were asked
about it asserted that it was good to drink even as much as a quart of
water with meals.

All of the seven doctors who were interviewed about the benefits of
water drinking agreed that the copious drinking of water was a
preventive of disease, and they had known many cases in which health was
restored by the drinking of water in large quantities. One doctor
advocates the drinking of as much as three gallons of water a day in
very warm weather, reducing the amount when the weather is cooler, but
never drinking less than a gallon a day.

“Why,” said this physician, “two-thirds of the weight of the body is
water. In a very warm day in August an average man who is at work will
perspire from two to six quarts of water a day. Where is it all coming
from if you don’t drink it? Many poisons generated by the body are
exuded through the pores of the skin in perspiration. Many persons think
they are not perspiring unless they can see beads of water on the skin.
But we perspire at all times, waking and sleeping, and we do not see it
because it evaporates immediately. It is almost impossible to drink too
much water.”

Another doctor said; “I saw a short article in a newspaper the other
evening quoting an eminent medical authority as saying that all girls
and women who wished to have a good complexion should drink two quarts
of water a day. I would double that and advise them to drink four quarts
a day. Give the body plenty of pure water, inside and outside, a gallon
a day inside, a thorough bathing of the whole body at least once a day,
and plenty of exercise, preferably by outdoor walking, and you can’t
very well be sick. If any one would do that, one-half the doctors would
have to seek some other business. If every woman would do that, the
rouge and complexion powder factories would shut down. There is nothing
so good as plenty of water drunk every day for the complexion.”

One physician said: “I am not claiming that the drinking of plenty of
water is a preventive of all diseases; that would be misleading and
silly, but I will say this: I have cured several bad cases of
rheumatism, and many cases of stomach ailments with water alone. In
those cases the patients were in the habit of drinking very little
water. I prescribed a quart of water before breakfast each morning and a
gallon on going to bed at night. It worked a cure in each case.

“I say this, most emphatically, that a half gallon or a gallon of water
a day will help wash out the toxic poisons that are formed in the body,
and will tend to keep a person in good health and help him resist
disease.

“There is constantly being accumulated in the body not only waste
matter, resulting from chemical changes taking place in the upkeep of
vital energy, but also the blood takes up toxic poisons from the
intestines. Unless those things are thrown off by the lungs, skin,
kidneys, et cetera, we become lazy, dyspeptic, and uric acid will
accumulate and cause rheumatism, kidney disorders, and other organic
disturbances. Now, such conditions would be much less likely to ensue
were the simple precaution taken of drinking a pint of water often
throughout the day.

“Especially is this true of persons who take little exercise and who
live indoors, where they breathe impure air.

“I often prescribe the slow sipping of at least a pint of hot water in
the morning while dressing. This washes out the stomach, stimulates the
circulation in the lungs and skin and promotes the action of the liver.
If a person has a tendency to gout or rheumatism, the water-drinking
habit is especially recommended.”

One physician was found who recommended the drinking of a quart of water
with each meal, but the majority were opposed to drinking water while
eating.


Soldiers in War, 21,770,000.

A German military authority estimates that 21,770,000 men stand opposed
to each other--12,820,000 on the side of the Allies and 8,950,000 for
Germany, Austria, and Turkey. On the naval side the estimates are as
follows:

                                    Germany,
                          Allies.    et al.
        Line ships          113        56
        Big cruisers         87        17
        Small cruisers      128        56
        Torpedo boats       704       358
        Submarine           179     [A]40
        Miscellaneous       231       239

        [A] Number of new boats unknown.

The daily cost of the war to the ten nations now taking part he places
at 169,000,000 marks--$42,250,000--and he estimates that up to
the first of April the total cost of the war was 40,000,000,000
marks--$10,000,000,000. Italy again excepted, he placed the annual cost
of such a war at $15,000,000,000.

It would take 60,000,000 of the huge 1,000-mark bank notes to pay this
cost, and these notes, stacked on top of each other, would make a pile
20,000 feet, almost four miles in height. In gold, this same sum would
weigh 24,000,000 kilograms--52,912,800 pounds, whereas the entire gold
production of the entire world during the last five hundred years has
amounted to but 15,000,000 kilograms.

The daily war costs for the German empire he places at 33,000,000
marks--$8,250,000, and only forty days of this conflict cost as much as
the whole Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71. The cost to England, exclusive
of the colonies, is about the same, and three months of this war cost
Great Britain as much as the Boer War, lasting two years and seven
months. France spends a little more daily.


Selling Street Cars Popular Bunko Game.

Government buildings, skyscrapers, and “gold bricks” have been “sold” to
innocent farmers, who, with carpet bag in hand, stand on crowded corners
and view the “wonders” of great cities.

The days of this kind of crooked work are passed, so police say, but
nevertheless street cars have been “sold” in Chicago and elsewhere in
Illinois, within the last two weeks.

Adorjan Antal is under arrest in Cleveland, Ohio, on a charge that he
“sold” street cars to foreigners who recently settled in Kane County,
Illinois.

Report from Columbus says the Ohio governor’s office has honored a
requisition from the governor of Illinois for the return of Antal, alias
Ontal Impre.


Wins in Long Name Contest.

Following the marriage of Anna Staingenskaitiskitage and the receipt of
congratulations from Mae Makoupakosalouskis and William J.
Pappademanakakoopoulous, the Duquoin, Ill., post-office
clerks inaugurated a contest for long names. Demetries
Pappatheothoroukoummountorgeotopoulous, of Moline, Ill., was declared
the winner.


At Twenty, She Sees for First Time.

After living in darkness twenty-five years, a two-minute operation by
Doctor Vard H. Hulen, of San Francisco, enabled Miss Tomsina Carlyle, a
University of California student, to gaze for the first time upon her
mother’s face.

Miss Carlyle describes her sensations since regaining sight as being
difficult to define or classify.

“Being blind since birth,” Miss Carlyle said, “has taught me it is the
brain, not the sense of sight, that counts. The speed of moving objects,
particularly on the streets, staggered me for a time, and if I become
frightened at a street corner, I close my eyes and walk forward
rejoicingly in safety.”


Cost of Hanging Man Was Seventeen Dollars.

The first record of warrants ever used by a treasurer of Rush County,
Ind., covering the period from 1822 to 1841, was found in the
treasurer’s office recently. The record showed that it cost the county
only seventeen dollars to hang Edward L. Swanson, the only man who ever
paid the death penalty in Rush County.

He was convicted of the murder of Elisha Clark in April, 1829, and,
after a motion for a new trial failed, was hanged in May of the same
year. The warrants issued show that five dollars was allowed Beverly R.
Ward for making a coffin for Swanson, two dollar was allowed David
Looney for digging the grave, and ten dollars was paid William L. Bupelt
for “rope, cap, shroud, and gallows for the execution of Edward L.
Swanson.”


Twins, Eighty-six, Rocked in Cradle.

Mrs. J. C. Barrett, of Edmonston, N. Y., and Mrs. Nathan V. Brand, of
Leonardsville, N. Y., who claim the distinction of being the oldest
twins in the State, celebrated their eighty-sixth birthday with some
unusual features. The cradle in which they slept as children has been
preserved, and the invited guests insisted that the twins be rocked in
it in the presence of all, and this was done, adding more merriment to
the occasion.


Facts You May Not Know.

There are eighty thousand exhibitors at the Pacific Exposition, and the
weight of the exhibits averages one ton each.

The opal is the only gem not successfully counterfeited.

One dollar to get married, ten cents to go to college, and fifty cents
to graduate are some of the items in the new regulation “governing the
affixing of stamps on certificates concerning human affairs,” which were
recently promulgated in China.

The population of French Indo-China is about 20,000,000, of whom 20,000
are Europeans, chiefly French.

The human family is subject to about 1,200 different kinds of disease
and ailment.

Motion pictures of insects in flight show that they regulate their speed
by changing the inclination of their wings rather than by altering the
rapidity of their motion.

All telephone operators in Egypt are required to be able to speak
English, French, Italian, Greek, and Arabic.

The American mountain sheep are the greatest leapers in the world.

Women study art with the aid of mirrors.

Bright people look upon the bright side of life.

The more you have, the more your fun will cost you. Auction sales
originated in ancient Rome, and were introduced to enable soldiers to
dispose of spoils of war.

Military training is compulsory on all male citizens between the ages of
twelve and twenty-five in New Zealand.


Jailbirds Sing as They Saw Through Bars.

John Wolfe, undersheriff of Wyandotte County, Kan., was seated in front
of the Wyandotte County Jail the other night when he heard the oft
repeated strains of “Throw Out the Life Line.” The prisoners were
singing. Wolfe crept to a side window and listened.

“Throw out the life line across the dark wave,” floated out to him, and
between the words came a sharp sound, as of steel scraping against
steel.

Then there was a pause in the singing. The singers had come to the end
of the song.

“How are you getting on, Brody?” was the next sound.

“All right, sing up, sing ‘Rock of Ages.’”

“Rock of ages, cleft for me,” the chorus began.

But before that hymn was finished, two deputies and Wolfe stepped into
the cell occupied by Jess Brody. He is under fifteen years’ sentence for
the murder of Nathan Gill. With him were Frank Dusenberry, awaiting his
second trial, charged with the murder of Jennie James, and Herbert
Davidson, held on a statutory charge. In the cell were found ten steel
saws and two knives. A bar had been sawed through. Once out of the cell,
only a window and its soft iron bars remained between the men and the
jail yard.

In the next cell was Fred Wing, charged with the murder of Mr. and Mrs.
John M. Crist, his father and mother-in-law, and attempted murder of his
wife. A knife was found in his cell.

There were thirty-nine prisoners in the jail, two others charged with
murder.


Big Fish Causes Drowning.

While attempting to land a big fish, Frank Waterbury, of Reading, Mich.,
was drowned in Turner Lake. He was in the same boat with his brother,
and when he hooked the big one, both men stood in one end of the boat
and tried to land the fish. The boat filled with water and sank. The
brother swam ashore.


Stolen Bird Returns Home.

A neighbor of Paul Graham, of No. 3 Bradburn Street, Rochester, N. Y.,
saw a canary bird flitting about in a tree within a few doors from the
Graham home. Members of the family were notified and the bird was at
once identified. The bird’s cage was brought out and placed on a lawn
near the house. The bird promptly flew to the ground and entered its
cage.

Burglars entered the Graham house a few days ago, and, in addition to
taking several articles, took the canary. The police were notified of
the finding of the canary. The canary was carried away in a new brass
cage. How it escaped, of course, is not known, but it evidently was
taken far away.


Find American Girl Husky.

The health department has weighed and measured ten thousand New York
school children who, from July 13, 1914, to April 13, 1915, asked for
working papers.

The boys of English, Scotch, or Irish stock weighed, on the average,
102.44 pounds. They were the lightest of all in avoirdupois.

The boys of Italian stock weighed 104.61.

The native American boys of American-born parents weighed 105.61 pounds.

The boys of German stock weighed 106.62 pounds.

Those of Jewish stock weighed 106.92 pounds.

The Russian, Polish, or Bohemian boys weighed 108.13 pounds. They were
the heaviest of all.

The composite average weight of the boys of all nationalities, native
and foreign, was 105.71 pounds.

In the matter of height, the German boys were the tallest, with an
average of 62.39 inches.

The native American boys of American-born parents averaged 62.38 inches,
the English, Scotch, or Irish, 62.21; the Russian, Polish, or Bohemian,
61.87; the Jewish, 60.93; the Italian, 60.30.

The composite average height of boys of all nationalities, American and
foreign, was 61.35 inches.

The girls of native American, English, Scotch, and Irish stocks were
taller and heavier than the boys of those stocks.

The composite average height of all the girls was less than that of the
boys, but they were a fraction heavier than the boys. The Russian,
Polish, and Bohemian girls were the tallest. The German girls were the
heaviest.


No Hair Cut in Fifty Years.

Caleb Stone, eighty, Middletown, Ill., received his first hair cut and
shave in fifty years. He said a half century ago that he would not
permit his hair to be cut or his beard to be trimmed, and kept his word.
His white locks had grown down to his shoulders and his beard to his
waist.


Groping for Gems in the Sea.

There is plenty of romance and excitement connected with the work of
diving for pearls in the waters of West Australia, but one of the
strangest things about the business is the curious mental condition of
the divers while they are under the water, groping for precious gems,
says an exchange. During a part of his time below, the diver is said to
be bordering on insanity.

A grudge against or a suspicion of those above is suddenly magnified in
the diver’s imagination, and he signals to be pulled up, resolved on
immediate revenge. When he reaches the top, however, the imaginary
wrongs vanish.

At a depth of eighty feet the diver cannot see well; he moves painfully
and he breathes hard. At every foot deeper he thinks how slight a mishap
may befoul his life line, and all his thoughts tend to center on his
hazards.

At such times the inadequacy of his pay appears to him as a huge
grievance, but when he comes to the surface and rests a few minutes, all
is again serene.


Man Suffocates in Balloon.

Asphyxiation inside of a balloon was the perilous plight by Andy Doyle,
of Krug Park, Omaha, who assisted Veo L. Huntley, balloonist, at the
recent celebration in Shenandoah, Iowa.

Doyle was stationed inside the bag space to watch the progress made in
filling and to call out for more gas from time to time, as was the usual
custom. Because of the strong winds blowing the fumes of the burning
kerosene oil to the ground, he was suffocated.

Hearing no noise from him, others went inside the bag and dragged him
out. He was revived in a short while.


From Mule Driver to Superintendent of Car System.

“Play straight and keep at it.”

This is the only formula of success followed by William W. Weatherwax,
who rose from a “mule driver” at one dollar and a half a day to be a
ten-thousand-dollar-a-year street-car superintendent.

Weatherwax told the story of his remarkable rise to Chicago’s street
railway board of arbitration at a recent session.

He entered the service of the Chicago City Railways Company as a boy of
twenty. His work was driving horses hitched to cars. His pay was one
dollar and fifty cents a day. He was known as a “mule boy.”

From that beginning, by steady, persevering work, Weatherwax worked
steadily upward. To-day he is in charge of the operation of the surface
lines of Chicago.

Asked to account for his success, Weatherwax said he “guessed it just
happened.”

“I worked hard and played straight--that was all there was to it,” he
said. “I left school when I was thirteen years old. I got a job with a
street-car company at Troy, N. Y., my home town. I started with the
Chicago company in 1886. I have been in its employ ever since.”

Weatherwax’s progress from the bottom up ran through these stages.
Driver, horse tender, hay-hoist operator in car barn, cable-car
conductor, assistant barn foreman, division superintendent, general
superintendent of transportation.

To-day he is the operating head of the greatest street-railway system in
the world, with two assistants, thirteen division superintendents, and
thousands of men under his control.


What Women are Doing.

“Woman’s work never ends,” wrote a poet long ago, and his statement is
as true to-day as ever. In addition to the women who work in their
homes, performing manifold household duties and rearing their children,
there are many who engage in the “gainful occupations,” as the census
reports call them. There is hardly an occupation listed in the latest
United States census in which woman is not represented. There are, for
instance, seventy-seven woman lumbermen--raftsmen and wood-choppers--in
the United States. There are 2,550 woman stock herders and raisers,
forty-five quarry operators, thirty-one blacksmiths, fifteen brick and
stone masons, and forty-four longshoremen. Many women have traveled far
up the road to success in their work. Ten women head iron foundries.
There are 325 woman bankers and 1,347 bank cashiers. Nearly a thousand
women are wholesale dealers. One woman is listed as a railroad official.
Three are proprietors of grain elevators.


Our Talc and Soapstone.

The United States produces more talc and soapstone than all the rest of
the world combined. Moreover, according to the United States Geological
Survey, our production has nearly doubled in the last ten years,
increasing from 91,185 short tons, valued at $940,731 in 1904, to
172,296 short tons, valued at $1,865,087, in 1914.

Of talc alone the United States produced 151,088 tons, and of soapstone
21,208 tons. Talc is a mineral of which soapstone is an impure massive
form. Few people are aware how much we owe to talc and soapstone. It is
one of the softest of minerals. It is so smooth and slippery that it has
become a great panacea for friction in many branches of human industry.
Talc is used in making talcum toilet powder, the tailor uses it to chalk
fabrics for new suits, and talc “slate pencils” and crayons have enabled
many scholars to solve knotty problems. Talc bleaches out cotton cloth,
and in paints we see it everywhere, but its chief use is as a filler in
paper of many kinds.

There are nine States producing this useful mineral. New York continues
to be the leading producer, yielding more than fifty-seven per cent of
the total production of talc in the United States, and far outranking
all other States excepting Vermont, which has in recent years so greatly
increased its production that in 1914 its output was about three-fourths
that of New York.

Of soapstone, Virginia holds the greatest supply, and, backed up by
Vermont, it meets the great demand for washtubs, sinks, and fireless
cookers.


Florida Camphor Industry.

The camphor industry in Florida, which may be said to have begun in
1905, has developed so greatly within a single decade it is confidently
expected that within a few years it will be able to supply the demand
for this important gum in this country. The bulk of the camphor now used
here is imported from Japan. A single tract of 1,600 acres of camphor
trees planted in 1908, last year yielded over ten thousand pounds of
camphor gum, in addition to the proportionate supply of oil.

This tract of land was planted by a celluloid factory, which is
utilizing the gum for its own purposes. Another company last year bought
eighteen square miles of land in the same locality, and is rapidly
planting it in camphor, 1,600 acres having been planted this year.

Enough seedlings are already on hand to plant nine square miles. Several
methods, and also some new machinery, have been devised for camphor
production in Florida, which will offset the cheap labor of Japan and
insure a sufficient profit.


A Clever Invention.

To combat the cotton-boll weevil, a Mississippian has invented a device
which, suspended from a man’s shoulders, brushes the insects from cotton
plants into a receptacle holding oil.


Owes His Life to Rise in Price of Zinc Ore.

To one-hundred-and-thirty-dollar zinc ore, J. H. Worth, mine and other
property owner of Joplin, Mo., owes his life. Two men, Royal Cardwell
and Samuel Houston, prospectors, had been waiting for nearly a year for
the price of ore to rise. They knew of an old, abandoned drift in a
certain mine, where, if ore prices would go high enough, they might make
some “easy money” by scrapping material that had been left years before.
Their wish was realized last week, when zinc concentrates went to one
hundred and thirty dollars per ton.

Entering the old drift in question, they found an unconscious man tied
hand and foot and gagged. He was taken to a hospital, and a few minutes
later, when he had recovered his sense, he told a strange story.

Worth had been accosted in a Joplin hotel by a stranger who said he
wanted to look over some of the former’s mining properties with a view
to obtaining a lease. The stranger’s partner then came up and was
introduced, but Worth does not remember either of their names. The three
entered a taxi and were taken to the old mine first mentioned, and,
after sending the motor back, proceeded to investigate the underground
workings. When they had at last entered the old, abandoned drift, Worth
was seized by the two men, gagged and tied to a mining timber, where he
was left for about an hour.

When the two men returned, they carried a box which had one end of a
long fuse attached to something inside. They placed the box at the bound
man’s side and stretched the fuse out on the floor of the drift, lighted
the far end, and, as they started away, one of them remarked:

“The fire will reach the dynamite in an hour, and that will be your
finish.”

That the dynamite, of which there was about fifty pounds, quite enough
to have caved in the drift, did not explode was from the fact, afterward
discovered, that the men, in walking about, about stepped on the fuse,
cutting it in two against a sharp point of stone, thus stopping the
little spark of destruction.

Worth had no idea as to the cause of the attack made upon him.


New Champion Horseshoer.

Harry Wilson, a Des Moines, Iowa, horseshoer, defeated Frank McCarty, of
Minneapolis, and Tom Welsh, of Milwaukee, in a shoeing contest. The
winner’s time was five minutes, forty-four seconds.


This Lad Makes a Home Run.

A twelve-inch trout, five-foot rattlesnake, and a big black bear can
afford a whole lot of excitement for one day. According to Robert
Bastian, a sixteen-year-old boy, entirely too much for a tenderfoot.

Robert was fishing in Roaring Run Creek, near Williamsport, Pa. He had
just hauled out the trout, when he discovered the rattlesnake curled up
beside the big stone. Seizing a club, he started to kill the snake, when
he heard something crashing through the bushes. He jumped aside just in
time to avoid the rush of the bear.

Without waiting to pick up trout, fishing rod, or lines, he made a home
run of over a mile. Folks in one of the houses he passed on his return
dash say they couldn’t make out whether he was some low-flying bird or a
frightened jack rabbit.


Trees Lightning Is Most Apt to Strike.

What trees are most likely to be struck by lightning? A Swedish forestry
journal called the _Woods_ has made a serious study of this subject, and
the results are both instructive and interesting. The oak, for example,
is about a hundred times more likely to be struck than the beech. Next
to the oak, the trees that are most often struck are the poplars, pear
trees, elms, willows, ash, and the larger kinds of evergreens.

Those least likely to be struck by lightning are alders, maples, horse
chestnut, and beeches. The last-named seems to be the one that is least
often injured by lightning. A middle position is occupied by lindens,
apple trees, cherry trees, walnut trees, and real chestnuts. The birch
is classified by some as being quite safe from lightning, while others
have a directly opposite view.

A German botanist, Ernest Stahl, has explained that liability to be
struck by lightning depends on the ease with which the trunks of
different trees get wet. It is a well-known observation that “dry
thunder” is the most dangerous, and it is probable that the wet layer
about the bark of a tree acts as a safeguard. Therefore, it is clear
that in a thunderstorm it is best to avoid trees with a dry bark, and
also trees that have been mutilated in the crown.

It may also be observed in this connection that the number of people
killed every year for every million inhabitants amounts to 1.8 in
Sweden, 1 in England, 4 in France, and 4.4 in Germany.

                   *       *       *       *       *

                        The Nick Carter Stories

          ISSUED EVERY SATURDAY      BEAUTIFUL COLORED COVERS


When it comes to detective stories worth while, the =Nick Carter Stories=
contain the only ones that should be considered. They are not overdrawn
tales of bloodshed. They rather show the working of one of the finest
minds ever conceived by a writer. The name of Nick Carter is familiar
all over the world, for the stories of his adventures may be read in
twenty languages. No other stories have withstood the severe test of
time so well as those contained in the =Nick Carter Stories=. It proves
conclusively that they are the best. We give herewith a list of some of
the back numbers in print. You can have your news dealer order them, or
they will be sent direct by the publishers to any address upon receipt
of the price in money or postage stamps.


730--The Torn Card.
731--Under Desperation’s Spur.
732--The Connecting Link.
733--The Abduction Syndicate.
738--A Plot Within a Plot.
739--The Dead Accomplice.
746--The Secret Entrance.
747--The Cavern Mystery.
748--The Disappearing Fortune.
749--A Voice from the Past.
752--The Spider’s Web.
753--The Man With a Crutch.
754--The Rajah’s Regalia.
755--Saved from Death.
756--The Man Inside.
757--Out for Vengeance.
758--The Poisons of Exili.
759--The Antique Vial.
760--The House of Slumber.
761--A Double Identity.
762--“The Mocker’s” Stratagem.
763--The Man that Came Back.
764--The Tracks in the Snow.
765--The Babbington Case.
766--The Masters of Millions.
767--The Blue Stain.
768--The Lost Clew.
770--The Turn of a Card.
771--A Message in the Dust.
772--A Royal Flush.
774--The Great Buddha Beryl.
775--The Vanishing Heiress.
776--The Unfinished Letter.
777--A Difficult Trail.
782--A Woman’s Stratagem.
783--The Cliff Castle Affair.
784--A Prisoner of the Tomb.
785--A Resourceful Foe.
789--The Great Hotel Tragedies.
795--Zanoni, the Transfigured.
796--The Lure of Gold.
797--The Man With a Chest.
798--A Shadowed Life.
799--The Secret Agent.
800--A Plot for a Crown.
801--The Red Button.
802--Up Against It.
803--The Gold Certificate.
804--Jack Wise’s Hurry Call.
805--Nick Carter’s Ocean Chase.
807--Nick Carter’s Advertisement.
808--The Kregoff Necklace.
811--Nick Carter and the Nihilists.
812--Nick Carter and the Convict Gang.
813--Nick Carter and the Guilty Governor.
814--The Triangled Coin.
815--Ninety-nine--and One.
816--Coin Number 77.


NEW SERIES

NICK CARTER STORIES

1--The Man from Nowhere.
2--The Face at the Window.
3--A Fight for a Million.
4--Nick Carter’s Land Office.
5--Nick Carter and the Professor.
6--Nick Carter as a Mill Hand.
7--A Single Clew.
8--The Emerald Snake.
9--The Currie Outfit.
10--Nick Carter and the Kidnapped Heiress.
11--Nick Carter Strikes Oil.
12--Nick Carter’s Hunt for a Treasure.
13--A Mystery of the Highway.
14--The Silent Passenger.
15--Jack Dreen’s Secret.
16--Nick Carter’s Pipe Line Case.
17--Nick Carter and the Gold Thieves.
18--Nick Carter’s Auto Chase.
19--The Corrigan Inheritance.
20--The Keen Eye of Denton.
21--The Spider’s Parlor.
22--Nick Carter’s Quick Guess.
23--Nick Carter and the Murderess.
24--Nick Carter and the Pay Car.
25--The Stolen Antique.
26--The Crook League.
27--An English Cracksman.
28--Nick Carter’s Still Hunt.
29--Nick Carter’s Electric Shock.
30--Nick Carter and the Stolen Duchess.
31--The Purple Spot.
32--The Stolen Groom.
33--The Inverted Cross.
34--Nick Carter and Keno McCall.
35--Nick Carter’s Death Trap.
36--Nick Carter’s Siamese Puzzle.
37--The Man Outside.
38--The Death Chamber.
39--The Wind and the Wire.
40--Nick Carter’s Three Cornered Chase.
41--Dazaar, the Arch-Fiend.
42--The Queen of the Seven.
43--Crossed Wires.
44--A Crimson Clew.
45--The Third Man.
46--The Sign of the Dagger.
47--The Devil Worshipers.
48--The Cross of Daggers.
49--At Risk of Life.
50--The Deeper Game.
51--The Code Message.
52--The Last of the Seven.
53--Ten-Ichi, the Wonderful.
54--The Secret Order of Associated Crooks.
55--The Golden Hair Clew.
56--Back From the Dead.
57--Through Dark Ways.
58--When Aces Were Trumps.
59--The Gambler’s Last Hand.
60--The Murder at Linden Fells.
61--A Game for Millions.
62--Under Cover.
63--The Last Call.
64--Mercedes Danton’s Double.
65--The Millionaire’s Nemesis.
66--A Princess of the Underworld.
67--The Crook’s Blind.
68--The Fatal Hour.
69--Blood Money.
70--A Queen of Her Kind.
71--Isabel Benton’s Trump Card.
72--A Princess of Hades.
73--A Prince of Plotters.
74--The Crook’s Double.
75--For Life and Honor.
76--A Compact With Dazaar.
77--In the Shadow of Dazaar.
78--The Crime of a Money King.
79--Birds of Prey.
80--The Unknown Dead.
81--The Severed Hand.
82--The Terrible Game of Millions.
83--A Dead Man’s Power.
84--The Secrets of an Old House.
85--The Wolf Within.
86--The Yellow Coupon.
87--In the Toils.
88--The Stolen Radium.
89--A Crime in Paradise.
90--Behind Prison Bars.
91--The Blind Man’s Daughter.
92--On the Brink of Ruin.
93--Letter of Fire.
94--The $100,000 Kiss.
95--Outlaws of the Militia.
96--The Opium-Runners.
97--In Record Time.
98--The Wag-Nuk Clew.
99--The Middle Link.
100--The Crystal Maze.
101--A New Serpent in Eden.
102--The Auburn Sensation.
103--A Dying Chance.
104--The Gargoni Girdle.
105--Twice in Jeopardy.
106--The Ghost Launch.
107--Up in the Air.
108--The Girl Prisoner.
109--The Red Plague.
110--The Arson Trust.
111--The King of the Firebugs.
112--“Lifter’s” of the Lofts.
113--French Jimmie and His Forty Thieves.
114--The Death Plot.
115--The Evil Formula.
116--The Blue Button.
117--The Deadly Parallel.
118--The Vivisectionists.
119--The Stolen Brain.
120--An Uncanny Revenge.
121--The Call of Death.
122--The Suicide.
123--Half a Million Ransom.
124--The Girl Kidnaper.
125--The Pirate Yacht.
126--The Crime of the White Hand.
127--Found in the Jungle.
128--Six Men in a Loop.
129--The Jewels of Wat Chang.
130--The Crime in the Tower.
131--The Fatal Message.
132--Broken Bars.
133--Won by Magic.
134--The Secret of Shangore.
135--Straight to the Goal.
136--The Man They Held Back.
137--The Seal of Gijon.
138--The Traitors of the Tropics.
139--The Pressing Peril.
140--The Melting-Pot.
141--The Duplicate Night.
142--The Edge of a Crime.
143--The Sultan’s Pearls.
144--The Clew of the White Collar.
145--An Unsolved Mystery.
146--Paying the Price.
147--On Death’s Trail.
148--The Mark of Cain.


Dated July 17th, 1915.

149--A Network of Crime.


Dated July 24th, 1915.

150--The House of Fear.


Dated July 31st, 1915.

151--The Mystery of the Crossed Needles.


Dated August 7th, 1915.

152--The Forced Crime.


Dated August 14th, 1915.

153--The Doom of Sang Tu.


Dated August 21st, 1915.

154--The Mask of Death.


Dated August 28th, 1915.

155--The Gordon Elopement.


Dated Sept. 4th, 1915.

156--Blood Will Tell.


=PRICE, FIVE CENTS PER COPY.= If you want any back numbers of our
weeklies and cannot procure them from your news dealer, they can be
obtained direct from this office. Postage stamps taken the same as
money.

STREET & SMITH, Publishers, 79-89 Seventh Ave., NEW YORK CITY

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NICK CARTER STORIES NO 156,
SEPTEMBER 4, 1915: BLOOD WILL TELL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
